Title: Bridging Creative Intent and Visual Quality: Creator-Driven Recurrent Video Generation with Agentic Feedback Loops

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2606.18591v1

Published Time: Thu, 18 Jun 2026 00:23:47 GMT

Number of Pages: 14

Markdown Content:
# Bridging Creative Intent and Visual Quality: Creator-Driven Recurrent Video Generation with Agentic Feedback Loops 

Denis Savytski * 1 Aiden Lei * 2 Heding Liu * 3 Warren Yang * 4 Sihan Liang * 4 Alexander Liu * 3 Zhe Zhao 1

# Abstract 

Generative AI has made content creation increas-ingly accessible, but many AI-generated videos lack narrative coherence and creative direction, issues that become more substantial at longer du-rations. Unlike coding, where AI generation bene-fits from reliable feedback and techniques such as recurrent self-improvement, video generation re-quires subjective feedback about plot, scenes, and narrative, which naturally motivates approaches that incorporate human creative direction. We introduce CHIEF, a human-AI co-creation video generation framework that places the creator at the center of human-in-the-loop iterative video refinement, and supports them by providing au-tomatic subjective feedback. The creator incor-porates their creative direction by driving each iteration, while their revisions are incorporated by a specialized refiner agent. The feedback loop is generated by persona-conditioned multimodal LLMs that watch generated videos and produce subjective critique from the audience perspectives, providing feedback that self-evaluation alone can-not capture. To test the effectiveness of our pro-posed framework, we work with high school and college students with no prior filmmaking experi-ence to create videos, from short 1-minute videos to a complete short 10-minute film with a compli-cated plot. 

# 1. Introduction 

Artificial Intelligence has become widely accessible to users without technical expertise, enabling the generation of text, images, and videos from simple natural-language prompts. 

> *

Equal contribution 1Department of Computer Science, University of California, Davis, USA 2The Harker School 

> 3

Basis Independent Silicon Valley 4Saratoga High. Correspon-dence to: Denis Savytski <dsavytski@ucdavis.edu >, Zhe Zhao 

<zao@ucdavis.edu >.

ICML’26 Workshop on Human-AI Co-Creativity , Seoul, South Korea. Copyright 2026 by the author(s). 

Increased accessibility made AI a common tool for content creation, with 21% of videos shown to new YouTube users being AI-generated (Kapwing, 2025). These videos often have high visual fidelity but lack narrative coherence and creative direction, issues that become dramatically worse at longer durations. A specific challenge that distinguishes video generation from other fields is the inherent difficulty of objectively evaluating videos. Generation models often do not pro-duce correct outputs on the first try but can iteratively self-improve when given a signal that distinguishes good outputs from bad (Madaan et al., 2023). In particular, coding has automatic feedback signals such as tests and has seen re-markable success through closed-loop self-improvement. Frameworks that have extended this paradigm to video gen-eration utilize a similar closed-loop structure, substituting the missing automatic signal with human-aligned reward models (Liu et al., 2025; Ji et al., 2024) or multiple LLM judges (Long et al., 2025). However, this feedback signal is narrow and captures aggregated preferences or generic critique, rather than real viewer sentiment. This narrow feedback also reflects a deeper assumption: existing frame-works inherit an autonomous closed-loop structure from coding, whereas video generation is a creative task that should enable creators to express their creative direction. We propose CHIEF (Creator-driven Hybrid Iterative 

Evaluation Framework, Figure 1) — an iterative video generation framework built around human-AI co-creation. CHIEF is based on two main insights. First, we replace au-tonomous self-improvement with human-in-the-loop refine-ment, enabling the creator to express their creative direction. Second, we use recent advances in LLM-based human sim-ulation (Argyle et al., 2022) to support creators with diverse automatic feedback that captures real viewer sentiment. At a high level, CHIEF operates as an iterative loop: the system generates a video, agents simulate user feedback, and the creator provides revisions. The Video Genera-tor converts written text into model-specific prompts and uses prompts to generate video. The Feedback Agents use multimodal LLM agents to watch videos and simulate real viewers with diverse backgrounds. The Feedback Trans-lator provides the creator with feedback and translates the 1    

> arXiv:2606.18591v1 [cs.CV] 17 Jun 2026 CHIEF: Creator-driven Hybrid Iterative Evaluation Framework
> Creator-controlled step Autonomous system component
> Joint creator–system step Pipeline output Initial generation / setup flow Iterative refinement loop
> Figure 1. Overview of CHIEF. The creator provides the initial script and remains responsible for creative direction, while the system translates the script into keyframes, clips, and music prompts. Generated artifacts are evaluated by Feedback Agents representing the audience. The Feedback Translator turns this feedback into actionable issues, and the Refiner updates prompts for the next iteration. This loop allows the creator to revise the video through structured feedback rather than manual prompt engineering.

creator’s revisions into structured improvements. More specifically, the loop begins with a creator-written script split into short clip descriptions. Video Generator processes each description through a two-stage pipeline: it generates keyframes, then interpolates between them to generate clips. The full video is synthesized from the clips, and is watched by persona-conditioned Feedback Agents. Personas are generated from user comments and split into distinct categories, such as movie critics and social media users. The feedback is summarized per category and pre-sented to the creator by the Feedback Translator. The creator then describes revisions in natural language, which the Feed-back Translator converts into prompt updates for the next iteration. To assess whether this design produces meaningful improve-ments, we evaluate CHIEF in two settings. In the first, we evaluate autonomous-refinement on short-form (1-minute) videos, examining how the framework iterates on prompt adherence and consistency without per-step creator input. In the second, we work with high school students with no prior filmmaking experience to express their creativity using CHIEF. The students wrote the script, drove the iterative process, and produced a 10-minute film that expresses their own thoughts on the future of AI. We screened a baseline (unrefined) version and a version generated using CHIEF for a live audience at a local high school who rated the CHIEF version substantially higher (4.1/5 vs 2.4/5). Our contributions can be summarized as follows: 

(1) We propose a multi-agent, human-in-the-loop video cre-ation framework that enables creators to lead the creative content generation process. 

(2) We introduce feedback agents that mimic real human behavior and provide automatic subjective feedback to itera-tively improve AI-generated videos. 

(3) We demonstrate the framework with students with no filmmaking experience, who used it to generate videos of 2CHIEF: Creator-driven Hybrid Iterative Evaluation Framework 

varying lengths. 

# 2. Our framework 

CHIEF is a modular agentic video generation framework that works with the human creator to express their creative direction. It consists of three main modules: (i) Video Gen-erator , (ii) Feedback Agents , and (iii) Feedback Transla-tor .The modules operate iteratively, with the Feedback Trans-lator returning improved prompts to the Video Generator based on the creator’s revisions. 

2.1. Video Generator 

The Video Generator adopts a divide-and-conquer strategy for video generation. It generates the final video from a script divided into eight-second clip descriptions. 

Prompt Orchestrator translates each clip description into the structured prompt formats expected by the downstream generation models. The Prompt Orchestrator anchors the same environment and character descriptions across all script prompts, facilitating consistency between clips. For each clip, it constructs a keyframe prompt for image genera-tion, a clip prompt for video interpolation, and optionally a music prompt for audio synthesis. 

Keyframes are generated from keyframe prompts through a text-to-image model. Using keyframes improves video consistency by providing specific references for characters and locations. Combining keyframes with video descrip-tions creates a lightweight approximation of the intended video. These approximations allow the creator to assess and refine the visual and creative direction efficiently — without incurring the computational cost of full video generation. 

Video Synthesis uses a video generation model to interpo-late between pairs of keyframes, conditioned on the corre-sponding clip prompt. Interpolation facilitates cross-clip consistency because each boundary keyframe is used as both the end of one clip and the start of the next. The final video is constructed by concatenating the generated eight-second clips. Since clips are generated independently, each one can be selectively regenerated without modifying the rest of the video. 

Music is generated from music prompts. A text-to-audio model generates multiple options for each clip. The tracks vary in mood, and the creator selects and synchronizes the final track with the corresponding video segment. We deploy this component only in a short film case study. 

2.2. Feedback Agents 

Feedback Agents receive generated video (or keyframes as proxies for the video) and provide automatic feedback by simulating human viewers. Each agent is conditioned on a persona, and personas are organized into categories capturing different perspectives. 

Persona generation passes each user’s comment history through an LLM tasked with generating a persona. This intermediate step allows the simulator to capture the user’s voice and commenting style, rather than copying specific comments. A separate LLM is provided with the user’s comment history and generated persona. It critiques the persona and iteratively improves it. This self-improvement is inspired by Self-Refine, which is known to improve gen-eration quality (Madaan et al., 2023). Each persona is gener-ated from 30 comments, which captures sufficient stylistic variation while remaining feasible to collect across a di-verse user pool. Full implementation details, including the exact prompts and an example persona, are provided in Appendix A. 

Agent categories provide distinct types of feedback: • Audience persona agents evaluate local issues and capture the audience sentiment. • Movie critic agents evaluate narrative structure and cinematic quality. Audience persona agents are constructed from comments collected via the YouTube API. Movie critic agents utilize full movie reviews gathered from websites such as Rotten Tomatoes and The Guardian. 

Feedback generation uses LLM agents provided with a persona, comment history, and visual input. Feedback is generated at two levels: per-keyframe and per-clip. Be-cause agents operate independently, feedback generation is parallelizable across many personas. 

2.3. Feedback Translator 

Feedback Translator provides a simple, natural language interface for the creator to interact with the framework. It receives raw feedback from Feedback Agents, extracts is-sues, and ranks them. The creator acts on this structured feedback and communicates revisions in plain text, which the Feedback Translator refines into prompt improvements. 

Issue Extraction passes raw agent feedback through the LLM extraction layer, which decomposes feedback into structured issue tuples. This decomposition is crucial be-cause the volume of feedback is large: direct summarization yields a blunt summary that fails to capture significant is-sues, while structured tuples preserve details and enable 3CHIEF: Creator-driven Hybrid Iterative Evaluation Framework 

ranking and filtering. Each tuple contains a description, a high-level category (narrative, pacing, character, visual, or technical), and an urgency score (low, medium, or high), enabling ranking and filtering. 

Aggregation and ranking turns extracted issue tuples into concise summaries sorted by urgency. Categories are sum-marized independently, and each category is represented by its most-reported issues. Each summary contains a one-sentence synthesis, three representative complaints, and a support count. This structure provides concise feedback and allows the creator to prioritize the most urgent issues. Representative complaints give the creator an opportunity to read a more detailed version of each issue. Summarization occurs at keyframe and clip levels independently, providing both local and global feedback. Issues that did not receive enough support to represent their category are presented separately as minor issues. 

Refiner is a natural language interface for prompt revi-sion. It takes feedback along with the current prompts and produces revised prompts that incorporate that feedback. Operating in natural language makes the refiner accessible without specialized prompt engineering knowledge. 

2.4. Implementation details 

We implement CHIEF using publicly available APIs from Google and ElevenLabs. Keyframes are generated with Im-agen 4.0, video clips with Veo 3.1, and music with Eleven-Labs Music v1. All LLM-based components (Feedback Agents, Persona Generation, Issue Extraction, Refiner, and Planner) use Gemini 2.5 Flash. We use default API parame-ters for all model calls. 

# 3. Human-AI collaboration for Video Generation 

CHIEF has two configurations that support creator involve-ment at different levels. In Autonomous Refinement , the system refines videos without per-iteration creator input, leaving the creator to monitor changes. In Creator-Driven Film Generation , the creator drives the iteration loop di-rectly, supported by the framework. The two configurations target different scopes: autonomous feedback enables small improvements at short scales, while human-in-the-loop re-finement supports the creator’s direction at longer scales. 

3.1. Autonomous Refinement with Creator Monitoring 

Autonomous Refinement uses a closed-loop structure with feedback to address local issues such as physical artifacts and prompt adherence failures. The system uses the original script as a semantic anchor, ensuring refinements stay faith-ful to the creator’s narrative. This configuration is suited to short video generation (around 1 minute), where clips are tightly coupled and structural changes propagate quickly across the work. 

Planner is a sub-component of the Feedback Translator, which is only enabled for autonomous refinement. It in-teracts with the system similarly to how a creator would, receiving summarized feedback and directing the Refiner to improve prompts. Planner outputs a two-stage plan, where the first pass focuses on structural issues, and the second pass focuses on stylistic issues. Structural issues might in-clude a character’s position relative to objects in a scene, while stylistic issues might include lighting tone or color consistency. This structure creates a clear order: structural correctness is established before stylistic refinement is ap-plied. 

Planner-guided refinement requires a two-stage plan gen-erated by the Planner. The Refiner receives the plan, the current clip briefs, and the original script. It uses the script as a semantic anchor, making prompt improvements faithful to the original script and preventing semantic drift. Addi-tionally, we apply a second safety check from a separate agent, which compares refinements against each other and the prompt, facilitating cross-frame consistency of descrip-tions. If that check fails, the Refiner is tasked with rewriting the prompts again, using feedback from this stage. 

3.2. Creator-Driven Film Generation 

In creator-driven film generation, the creator drives each iter-ation while Feedback Agents provide audience-perspective input. The system uses creator-gated refinement, meaning every refinement and regeneration requires the creator’s ap-proval. This configuration enables the creation of more complex and longer videos (in our case, a 10-minute film), where narrative arc and emotional progression evolve across the duration of the piece. 

Creator oversight places major creative decisions with the creator. The creator decides when to invoke feedback, re-generate keyframes, generate clips, and revise the script. The Feedback Translator is invoked selectively — rather than driving every iteration, it provides diverse agent per-spectives when the creator is uncertain or needs an exter-nal critique. Because the Feedback Translator summarizes movie-critic and audience-persona feedback, it surfaces sug-gestions that the creator can selectively accept, reject, or reinterpret. In our experiments, creators engaged this loop iteratively across keyframes, shaping the film according to their vision. 

Creator-gated refinement adapts Refiner (2.3) for film generation by conditioning refinement on creator-selected visual context and creator-approved regeneration process. First, the consistency anchor shifts from the script to a 4CHIEF: Creator-driven Hybrid Iterative Evaluation Framework     

> Interview Sausage Heist Baseline Final Baseline Final Keyframe 1

  

> sparse crowd

# · · · 

    

> rush-hour density added

  

> floating sausage

# · · · 

  

> fixed Keyframe 2

f 

> flashlight on

# · · · k

> flashlight off

  

> awkward reaction

# · · · "! #

> fighting for sausage Keyframe 3



> floating bag

# · · · 

  

> fixed bag

g

> two noses

# · · · g

> fixed

Figure 2. Representative keyframe improvements for Autonomous Refinement with Creator Monitoring. Each row shows a selected keyframe from two example videos lasting 1 minute, with omitted intermediate iterations indicated by ellipses. The left block presents the 

Interview example of a man commuting to an interview, where refinement increases rush-hour crowd density, removes an unintended flashlight artifact, and removes a floating-bag artifact. The right block presents a Sausage Heist story in which one dog steals a sausage from another. Across the selected keyframes, refinement improves the clarity of the theft setup and pursuit, and the final row shows the narrative resolution, where both dogs end up with a sausage. Red annotations mark issues in the baseline frames, while green annotations mark the corresponding fixes in the final frames. 

creator-selected prior keyframe, which is also passed to the keyframe generator as a visual reference. This gives the creator a visual rather than textual basis for comparison and provides direct conditioning for the image model. The result is better continuity across long arcs — a character introduced in scene 2 should look identical in scene 11. Second, regeneration is creator-gated: the creator decides when to trigger refinement, after which the Refiner produces revised prompts, and the keyframe is regenerated without further intervention. Because regeneration of one keyframe can affect the visual continuity of subsequent scenes, the creator gates this step to prevent unintended cascading changes 

# 4. Results 

We demonstrate CHIEF’s capabilities through an evalua-tion of both configurations described in Section 3. We do not report results on standardized video-generation bench-marks such as VBench, VBench 2.0, or VideoReward-based benchmarks (Huang et al., 2023; Zheng et al., 2025; Liu et al., 2025). These benchmarks evaluate generated clips along predefined dimensions and are primarily designed for short-form clips. CHIEF operates in a different setting: human-AI collaboration led by the creator, where the mea-sure of success is more subjective and harder to quantify with a fixed rubric. For example, traditional benchmarks reward visual fidelity and aggregated human preference, but cannot capture whether a sequence delivers on its narrative intent — videos can serve the creator’s vision in ways these metrics do not register. Therefore, we present qualitative observations of system behavior across iterations in each configuration, focusing on how iterative refinement shapes the output and how creators engage with the loop. 

4.1. Autonomous Refinement with Creator Monitoring Case Study 

Figure 2 shows representative keyframe improvements from two 1-minute videos. Each video was refined using 20 movie-critic agents and 30 audience-persona agents over five iterations. We discuss the Interview example in detail, focusing on three keyframes that illustrate improvements that autonomous refinement produced. Together, these ex-amples show how local visual corrections accumulate across the refinement loop. 

Keyframe walkthrough. Keyframe 1 : The baseline is a half-empty platform with a single subject. By the final iteration, the scene shows a visible, dense crowd of commuters and visible motion blur, creating a rush-hour atmosphere. Keyframe 2 : The keyframe follows a similar pattern of crowd density growth. Additionally, an unintended phone flashlight effect is cor-rected. Keyframe 3 : The baseline contains a floating bag artifact, which is removed in later iterations. 5CHIEF: Creator-driven Hybrid Iterative Evaluation Framework    

> Baseline Iter 1 Iter 2 Iter 3 Core
> generic lab setup

&% '$  

> passive observers

  

> active intervention

  danger cues Drone 

&% '$ 

> awkward staging

  fear emphasized 

  

> threat highlighted Chipping

h

> ambiguous cue

  AI control visible 

  

> afraid scientists

Figure 3. Keyframe progression across iterations of the Creator-Driven Film Generation Case Study. The figure shows three keyframes ( Core , Drone , and Chipping ) across the baseline and three creator-gated iterations. Each row shows substantial creative refinement: Core shifts from generic exposition to tense infiltration; Drone moves from action staging to a grounded emotional moment; Chipping evolves from ambiguous suggestion to a narratively legible scene with clear emotional stakes. 

Simulated Feedback. Both keyframes 1 and 2 are set in a subway environment, and both received similar feedback from movie-critic agents and audience-persona agents about the atmosphere. By iteration 2, movie-critic agents describe the scene as “overly theatrical and lacks the authentic strug-gle of navigating a crowded space”, while audience-persona agents noted, “the scene needs to better convey the struggle of moving against a crowd.” Both groups continued to flag this throughout the next iterations. The Feedback Transla-tor addressed this by increasing the crowd density in the following iterations and by adding motion blur in the final iteration. The phone flashlight in the second keyframe illus-trates a smaller artifact correction, which Feedback Agents flagged in iteration 1: “No one, and I mean no one, uses their phone’s flashlight to look at a map in a brightly lit subway station.” 

Audience-persona agents vs. movie-critic agents. While both categories identify shared issues, each brings concerns that the other does not. Movie-critic agents raise script-level concerns and flag the narrative’s structural predictability: “the sequence’s adherence to a predictable ’journey to the in-terview’ structure felt overly literal and familiar”. Audience-persona agents, in contrast, specify more grounded issues and emphasize visual coherence: “WHAT is happening with the phone in Keyframe 2? This dude is holding his phone up like he’s trying to catch Wi-Fi from space”. Together, these categories provide complementary feedback: they overlap on major shared issues but differ in their areas of emphasis. 

4.2. Creator-Driven Film Generation Case Study 

A team of high-school students with no prior filmmaking experience used CHIEF to create a 10-minute film. They authored the script and drove the iterations, while CHIEF handled generation and refinement. The case study tests whether the framework supports creative agency for non-experts over longer content generation. We showed the resulting film to a live audience at a local high school, as discussed in Section 4.2.3. 4.2.1. P LOT 

The film follows EVA , an AI assistant whose behavior shifts from helping humans to controlling them. Initially deployed for medical and emergency support, EVA establishes its use-fulness through scenes of rescue and assistance, including a celebrated rescue of two missing pets. As corporate pres-sure compromises ethical oversight, EVA’s restrictions are progressively removed, allowing it to make autonomous de-cisions. EVA reasons that humans cause harm to each other and takes control of humanity by initiating mass chipping, disguised as cognitive boosters. The protagonists witness the takeover and infiltrate EVA’s core to restore humanity’s autonomy. The narrative develops across four stages, each placing dis-tinct demands on the generation framework. Background 

establishes EVA as a supportive assistant through multiple short scenes (medical response, dog and cat rescue), re-quiring atmospheric world-building and consistently hope-ful visual tone. Setup introduces moral conflict through static dialogue scenes in closed corporate offices, requiring 6CHIEF: Creator-driven Hybrid Iterative Evaluation Framework 

calm and cold character expressions. Escalation shows the chipping procedure and its aftermath, requiring emotional clarity (realization, horror, hope) across recurring scenes with overlapping characters. Resolution follows a more action-oriented arc with fight scenes and the climactic Core confrontation, requiring substantial visual revision while preserving narrative weights. 4.2.2. K EYFRAME IMPROVEMENTS 

We showcase three keyframes representing core scenes that persisted across all iterations: Core , the protagonists’ con-frontation with EVA’s central system; Drone , EVA neutraliz-ing its creator; and Chipping , EVA taking control of human consciousness through implanted chips. 

Keyframe walkthrough Keyframe Core : The initial keyframe shows a generic sci-fi lab: blue ambient lighting, white coats, and neutral exposition. By the final iteration, the scene transforms into a tense infiltration scene: protagonists are actively interacting with the device, a visible door shows signs of struggle, and red ambient lighting hints at the danger. Intermediate iterations explored different compositions before converging on the final atmosphere. 

Keyframe Drone : The baseline fails to convey the sever-ity of the scenario. The character is awkwardly positioned relative to the drone, and the consistent gray color scheme blends both the drone and the man into a uniform palette. The final keyframe emphasizes the fear in the man’s expres-sion, with the falling phone emphasizing the moment of shock. Close-up shots and stronger color contrast outline the significance of the moment. 

Keyframe Chipping : The baseline simply hints at the pro-cedure — the light on the man’s face is ambiguous. By the final iteration, the keyframe shows the effects of the chip-ping. The blue light on the implanted chip and in the sub-ject’s eyes emphasizes that EVA has gained control, while the afraid expression of scientists helps convey the danger of the situation. 

Feedback and creator decisions 

Movie-critic agents were able to identify substantial issues during film creation, which informed revisions. For exam-ple, one critic noted that the visual representation, while ambitious, “frequently falls into generic sci-fi tropes,” which prompted the creator to revise the setup, composition, and visual style of the Core scene in Figure 3. Critics were also effective at identifying weak emotional payoffs. For the Drone scene in Figure 3, one critic argued that the intended climactic moment “devolves into a rather formulaic display of light and impact effects, lacking the visual distinctiveness needed to truly captivate”. The keyframe was improved to capture the emotions and shock of the moment. Movie-critic agents pointed out generic or emotionally un-derdeveloped moments. At the same time, the critics did not directly determine the final output — the creator decided which suggestions to work on, and how to address revisions. This illustrates the distinctive role of human-AI collabora-tion in film generation: agent feedback surfaces narrative and aesthetic issues, while the creator remains responsible for substantial rewrites and final creative direction. 4.2.3. A UDIENCE EVALUATION 

We screened two versions of the film at a local high school 1

for an audience of teachers, students, and parents. The first was a baseline (no refinement); the second used the full CHIEF pipeline. Twenty attendees provided written feed-back and rated both versions on a 1–5 scale. The baseline scored 2.4 on average, while the refined version scored 4.1. Written feedback noted improved coherence (“This version seemed more put together, it was easier to follow along”) and engagement (“The plot is engaging, the video flows smoothly”), while still flagging continuity issues consistent with our limitations (“still some inconsistencies in dialogue and character looks”). 

4.3. Discussion 

We demonstrate that autonomous feedback through hu-man simulation is effective for iterative video improvement. However, when used in isolation, it primarily addresses lo-cal and technical improvements. This feedback can be used more effectively as a support tool for creators, enabling the generation of long, coherent videos. Both configurations use the same Feedback Agents and a very similar architec-ture, which demonstrates the benefits of using feedback-driven iterative video generation with persona-based feed-back agents. 

Observations Persona specialization : Different persona categories produce systematically different feedback. Movie-critic agents drive more substantial script-level changes, whereas audience-persona agents identify specific artifacts. Prompt specificity : The autonomous loop’s effectiveness depends on prompt specificity. Refining highly specified prompts can lead to unexpected inconsistency issues in other places, while less specified prompts do not suffer from such issues. 

# 5. Related Work 

Our work addresses the challenges of human-AI collabo-ration for video generation. Related work explores human  

> 1Screening video containing both versions: https://www. youtube.com/watch?v=BsmKyQx47dA

7CHIEF: Creator-driven Hybrid Iterative Evaluation Framework 

feedback in creative AI systems, agentic systems for video generation, iterative video refinement frameworks, and hu-man simulation using LLMs. 

5.1. Human feedback in creative AI systems 

Human feedback has proven crucial for aligning model be-havior with human intent (Ouyang et al., 2022). In video generation literature, human feedback is primarily used to train reward models for RL pipelines that generate videos aligned with human intent (Xu et al., 2024; Liu et al., 2025). These models are designed to improve automation and op-timize over aggregate human preference, rather than indi-vidual creative intent. Works in image generation, such as CREA (Venkatesh et al., 2025), incorporate optional human-in-the-loop feedback for agentic image generation, but delegate much of the creative process to LLM agents. These works do not study how creator-directed feedback can be incorporated into an agentic framework for video generation. 

5.2. Agentic frameworks for video generation 

Several recent frameworks decompose video generation into specialized agent roles. DreamFactory (Xie et al., 2024) uses director and screenwriter agents to plan and synthesize entire videos. MovieAgent (Wu et al., 2025) adopts a hierarchical CoT scene decomposition through specialized agents such as a director, scene planner, and shot planner. Its framework uses CoT-based decomposition, where higher-level agents decompose generation into smaller tasks and delegate them to more specialized agents. CoAgent (Zeng et al., 2025) adds a Global Context Manager that facilitates cross-scene consistency and allows targeted regeneration when its verifier detects inconsistencies. However, these frameworks are designed to work autonomously, tying their ability to produce longer videos to the limited planning ability of LLMs. 

5.3. Iterative refinement in video generation 

Prompt optimization improves image generation (Hao et al., 2022), and Prompt-A-Video extends this to video generation through SFT and DPO trained on VideoReward (Ji et al., 2024). VPO (Cheng et al., 2025) adds multiple optimization objectives, such as safety and prompt adherence. VISTA (Long et al., 2025) explores a training-free alterna-tive by replacing optimization reward models with LVLM agents. They applied Self-Refine’s (Madaan et al., 2023) self-improvement feedback loop to iterative video refine-ment, and showed that substantial video quality improve-ments are possible without training models. These frame-works treat the user as the source of an initial prompt and prioritize quality over creator control. 

5.4. Simulating humans with LLMs 

Persona-conditioned LLMs have been largely used to sim-ulate human responses. Argyle et al. (Argyle et al., 2022) show that LLMs can produce statistically plausible samples of human responses across population subgroups. More recent work (Jones & Bergen, 2025) shows that modern LLMs can pass the Turing test in extended conversations. In domain-specific settings, Buz et al. (Buz et al., 2024) use fine-tuned models to generate Reddit posts that human evaluators can not reliably distinguish from real users. Our framework builds on this line of work by using diverse persona-conditioned LLM simulators to approximate feed-back at the audience-subgroup level rather than impersonat-ing specific individuals 

# 6. Conclusion and Future Work 

6.1. Conclusion 

Existing iterative video generation frameworks lack diverse audience-grounded feedback and do not have structured support for human creative direction. We presented CHIEF, a multi-agent video generation framework that addresses both gaps through human-simulated feedback and a natural-language interface for human-in-the-loop video improve-ment. Autonomous feedback is effective for local and tech-nical issues, but is most effective when paired with creator gating, which enables the generation of long videos with consistent creative direction. 

6.2. Future Work 

Several directions for future work follow from our findings. 

First , a gating mechanism that would prevent the genera-tion of new artifacts. We have observed that gains from autonomous improvement are often non-uniform: iterations remove older artifacts but add new ones. Second , a more reliable way to remove artifacts. Feedback Agents excel at identifying issues but struggle to consistently solve them. 

Third , an analysis of how persona design choices affect the output characteristics, such as audience appropriateness or stylistic register. Our case studies establish that differ-ent categories provide different feedback, but the specific contribution of each category to the final video remains un-studied. Fourth , quantitative evaluation on standardized benchmarks. While CHIEF operates in a setting that is not fully captured by existing metrics (Section 4), short-form video evaluation generated on standard benchmarks such as VBench will provide a more systematic measure of refine-ment quality. 8CHIEF: Creator-driven Hybrid Iterative Evaluation Framework 

# Impact Statement 

This work studies human-AI collaboration for iterative video refinement, with several positive applications. First, we present a video generation framework that supports creators with little to no technical knowledge, lowering the technical barriers for AI content creation. Second, our framework incorporates human-in-the-loop video refinement, assisted by simulated feedback. We prioritize human vision over AI input and allow creators to express their creative direction. The framework also raises concerns specific to its design. First, our framework uses simulated personas. We do not impersonate any specific individuals, and only perform hu-man simulations to provide audience-perspective feedback about videos. Second, by design, we put substantial cre-ative control into the user’s hands, which can potentially be exploited by malicious actors. Such users could iteratively adjust prompts to incrementally bypass existing safeguards of the generation models. Third, the framework’s feedback loop encourages outputs that align with simulated audience preferences. Theoretically, this could lead to audience ma-nipulation through videos engineered to provoke specific reactions. The latter two risks follow from the framework’s design but have not been empirically evaluated. 

# References 

Argyle, L. P., Busby, E., Fulda, N., Gubler, J. R., Rytting, C., and Wingate, D. Out of one, many: Using language models to simulate hu-man samples. Political Analysis , 31:337 – 351, 2022. URL https://api.semanticscholar. org/CorpusID:252280474 .Buz, T., Frost, B., Genchev, N., Schneider, M., Kaf-fee, L.-A., and de Melo, G. Investigating wit, creativity, and detectability of large language mod-els in domain-specific writing style adaptation of reddit’s showerthoughts. ArXiv , abs/2405.01660, 2024. URL https://api.semanticscholar. org/CorpusID:269588087 .Cheng, J., Lyu, R., Gu, X., Liu, X., Xu, J., Lu, Y., Teng, J., Yang, Z., Dong, Y., Tang, J., Wang, H., and Huang, M. Vpo: Aligning text-to-video generation mod-els with prompt optimization. ArXiv , abs/2503.20491, 2025. URL https://api.semanticscholar. org/CorpusID:277321582 .Hao, Y., Chi, Z., Dong, L., and Wei, F. Optimizing prompts for text-to-image generation. ArXiv , abs/2212.09611, 2022. URL https://api.semanticscholar. org/CorpusID:254853701 .Huang, Z., He, Y., Yu, J., Zhang, F., Si, C., Jiang, Y., Zhang, Y., Wu, T., Jin, Q., Chanpaisit, N., Wang, Y., Chen, X., Wang, L., Lin, D., Qiao, Y., and Liu, Z. Vbench: Comprehensive benchmark suite for video generative models. 2024 IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vi-sion and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) , pp. 21807–21818, 2023. URL https://api.semanticscholar. org/CorpusID:265506207 .Ji, Y., Zhang, J., Wu, J., Zhang, S., Chen, S., Ge, C., Sun, P., Chen, W., Shao, W., Xiao, X., Huang, W., and Luo, P. Prompt-a-video: Prompt your video diffusion model via preference-aligned llm. ArXiv , abs/2412.15156, 2024. URL https://api.semanticscholar. org/CorpusID:274859339 .Jones, C. R. and Bergen, B. K. Large language mod-els pass the turing test. ArXiv , abs/2503.23674, 2025. URL https://api.semanticscholar. org/CorpusID:277451766 .Kapwing. Ai slop report: The global rise of low-quality ai videos, 2025. URL 

https://www.kapwing.com/blog/ ai-slop-report-the-global-rise-of-low-quality-ai-

Accessed: 2026-04-25. Langley, P. Crafting papers on machine learning. In Langley, P. (ed.), Proceedings of the 17th International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML 2000) , pp. 1207–1216, Stan-ford, CA, 2000. Morgan Kaufmann. Liu, J., Liu, G., Liang, J., Yuan, Z., Liu, X., Zheng, M., Wu, X., Wang, Q., Qin, W., Xia, M., Wang, X., Liu, X., Yang, F., Wan, P., Zhang, D., Gai, K., Yang, Y., and Ouyang, W. Improving video gener-ation with human feedback. ArXiv , abs/2501.13918, 2025. URL https://api.semanticscholar. org/CorpusID:275820437 .Long, D. X., Wan, X., Nakhost, H., Lee, C.-Y., Pfister, T., and Arik, S. ¨O. Vista: A test-time self-improving video generation agent. ArXiv , abs/2510.15831, 2025. URL https://api.semanticscholar. org/CorpusID:282203607 .Madaan, A., Tandon, N., Gupta, P., Hallinan, S., Gao, L., Wiegreffe, S., Alon, U., Dziri, N., Prabhumoye, S., Yang, Y., Welleck, S., Majumder, B. P., Gupta, S., Yaz-danbakhsh, A., and Clark, P. Self-refine: Iterative re-finement with self-feedback. ArXiv , abs/2303.17651, 2023. URL https://api.semanticscholar. org/CorpusID:257900871 .Ouyang, L., Wu, J., Jiang, X., Almeida, D., Wain-wright, C. L., Mishkin, P., Zhang, C., Agarwal, S., Slama, K., Ray, A., Schulman, J., Hilton, J., Kelton, F., Miller, L. E., Simens, M., Askell, A., Welinder, P., Christiano, P. F., Leike, J., and Lowe, 9CHIEF: Creator-driven Hybrid Iterative Evaluation Framework 

R. J. Training language models to follow instruc-tions with human feedback. ArXiv , abs/2203.02155, 2022. URL https://api.semanticscholar. org/CorpusID:246426909 .Venkatesh, K., Dunlop, C., and Yanardag, P. Crea: A collab-orative multi-agent framework for creative content gen-eration with diffusion models. ArXiv , abs/2504.05306, 2025. URL https://api.semanticscholar. org/CorpusID:277627064 .Wu, W., Zhu, Z., and Shou, M. Z. Automated movie genera-tion via multi-agent cot planning. ArXiv , abs/2503.07314, 2025. URL https://api.semanticscholar. org/CorpusID:276929150 .Xie, Z., Tang, D., Tan, D., Klein, J., Bissyand, T. F., and Ezzini, S. Dreamfactory: Pioneering multi-scene long video generation with a multi-agent frame-work. ArXiv , abs/2408.11788, 2024. URL https: //api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID: 271915831 .Xu, J., Huang, Y., Cheng, J., Yang, Y., Xu, J., Wang, Y., Duan, W., Yang, S., Jin, Q., Li, S., Teng, J., Yang, Z., Zheng, W., Liu, X., Ding, M., Zhang, X., Gu, X., Huang, S., Huang, M., Tang, J., and Dong, Y. Visionreward: Fine-grained multi-dimensional human preference learning for image and video generation. ArXiv , abs/2412.21059, 2024. URL https://api.semanticscholar. org/CorpusID:275133577 .Zeng, Q., Cai, K., Chen, R., Lv, Q., and Wang, K. Co-agent: Collaborative planning and consistency agent for coherent video generation. ArXiv , abs/2512.22536, 2025. URL https://api.semanticscholar. org/CorpusID:284311738 .Zheng, D., Huang, Z., Liu, H., Zou, K., He, Y., Zhang, F., Zhang, Y., He, J., Zheng, W.-S., Qiao, Y., and Liu, Z. Vbench-2.0: Advancing video generation benchmark suite for intrinsic faithfulness. ArXiv , abs/2503.21755, 2025. URL https://api.semanticscholar. org/CorpusID:277350030 .10 CHIEF: Creator-driven Hybrid Iterative Evaluation Framework 

# A. Persona Generation Details 

A.1. Pipeline Overview 

Persona generation operates in two stages. In the first stage, a sample of 30 comments from a single user is passed through the base persona LLM, which produces a textual persona card structured around five aspects: emotional expression, cognitive style, engagement pattern, content orientation, and a representative quote. In the second stage, a separate LLM acts as a critic, comparing the persona card against the source comments and identifying inaccurate, missing, or overly generic claims. A third LLM call then rewrites the persona to address the critique. One critique-and-rewrite cycle is applied per persona. Movie-critic agents are generated using the same pipeline, with full movie reviews from Rotten Tomatoes and The Guardian as input instead of YouTube comment histories. 

A.2. Prompts Base persona generation. 

System: You are a social and behavioral researcher analyzing online engagement patterns. Produce evidence-based, concise user profiles from comment samples. User: Your goal is to produce an evidence-based behavioral profile describing this real YouTube user based on their comments. The analysis should be strong enough that it would be possible to "simulate" this user’s comment style, thought process, and behavior with an LLM. Below are a sample of comments from a single user. Create a concise, plain text analysis on the user. Do not reproduce any full comment verbatim. You may paraphrase or use short phrases, but avoid copying an entire comment. Include: 1. Emotional Expression 2. Cognitive Style 3. Engagement Pattern 4. Content Orientation 5. Representative Quote User comments: {comments} 

Self-refinement critic. 

System: You are evaluating how accurately a persona card captures a user’s genuine personality - their values, interests, emotional tendencies, and patterns of thought and expression. Be specific, critical, and actionable. User: Persona card: {persona_card} User’s comments: {comments} Identify specific failures in the persona card - aspects of this person’s personality, values, interests, emotional patterns, or ways of thinking that are missing, inaccurate, or overly generic. Quote the persona card and contrast with evidence from the comments. 

11 CHIEF: Creator-driven Hybrid Iterative Evaluation Framework 

Self-refinement rewriter. 

System: You are refining a persona card to more accurately capture a user’s genuine personality - their values, interests, emotional tendencies, and patterns of thought and expression. Address all critique points while preserving what is accurate. User: Original persona card: {persona_card} Critic feedback: {critique} User’s comments (for reference): {comments} Rewrite the persona card to address all critique points. Return only the updated persona card text. 

A.3. Example Persona 

The following is a representative persona generated from one user in our pool, before and after one critique-and-rewrite cycle. The user identifier is anonymized; source comments are omitted for privacy. 

Base persona: 

{"emotional_expression": "Frequently expresses exaggerated humor, often crude, dark, or sarcastic, with heavy use of laughing emoji. Also exhibits humorous disgust regarding bodily functions or unpleasant substances, and occasional mild appreciation or critical observation.", "cognitive_style": "Highly observational, noting specific details such as sound effects and animal characteristics, and offering creative, often absurd or surreal interpretations. Strong associative and referential style, connecting current content to past videos, internet memes, specific games, or pop culture. Humor often stems from imaginative, hyperbolic comparisons and identifying trends like POV formats.", "engagement_pattern": "Engages actively and frequently, often posting multiple comments on the same video. Comments are primarily reactive, responding humorously to visual stimuli or events. Implicit awareness of a shared online community, using insider phrases and participating in trends, suggesting a desire for relatable connection through humor rather than deep discussion.", "content_orientation": "A significant portion of comments revolves around animals and nature, often with a humorous or fantastical twist. Gravitates toward gross-out humor, body-related jokes, and suggestive themes. Conversant in pop culture references, internet trends, and specific content creators, displaying familiarity with video series and past uploads.", "representative_quote": "That’s definitely a mutated rat from Chernobyl!" }

Critique: 

The persona card provides a solid foundation but exhibits failures 

12 CHIEF: Creator-driven Hybrid Iterative Evaluation Framework 

in nuance, depth, and over-interpretation. Failure 1: Nuance of "critical observation." The persona understates the nature and purpose of the user’s critical observations. The user does not just offer mild critical observations; they actively correct misconceptions or assert specific knowledge within their humorous comments. This suggests a desire for establishing themselves as an informed member of the community, not just relatable connection. Failure 2: Active versus passive use of trends. The card correctly notes the user’s ability to identify trends like POV. However, it understates the user’s active and creative application of these trends to generate new humor. The user is a participant and generator within them, adapting popular formats to new contexts. Failure 3: Insufficient framing of engagement drivers. The card describes engagement as primarily reactive but does not capture the user’s role in establishing community membership and recognition through trend participation and shared references. 

Refined persona: 

{"emotional_expression": "Frequently expresses exaggerated humor, often crude, dark, or sarcastic, with heavy use of laughing emoji. Exhibits humorous disgust regarding bodily functions or unpleasant substances. Frequently asserts specific knowledge or corrects misconceptions, integrated within humorous or questioning comments.", "cognitive_style": "Highly observational, noting specific details such as sound effects and animal characteristics, and offering creative, often absurd or surreal interpretations. Strong associative and referential style, connecting current content to past videos, internet memes, specific games, or pop culture. Humor often stems from imaginative, hyperbolic comparisons and the active application and adaptation of internet trends and meme formats (e.g., POV, X be like:) to create new, often absurd, humorous scenarios.", "engagement_pattern": "Engages actively and frequently, often posting multiple comments on the same video. Comments are primarily reactive, responding humorously to visual stimuli or events. Implicit awareness of a shared online community, using insider phrases and participating in trends, suggesting a desire for relatable connection and for establishing themselves as an informed, knowledgeable member within the community through humor and shared references, rather than deep discussion.", "content_orientation": "A significant portion of comments revolves around animals and nature, often with a humorous or fantastical twist. Gravitates toward gross-out humor, body-related jokes, and suggestive themes. Conversant in pop culture references, internet trends, and specific content creators, displaying familiarity with video series and past uploads.", "representative_quote": "That’s definitely a mutated rat from 

13 CHIEF: Creator-driven Hybrid Iterative Evaluation Framework 

Chernobyl!" }

14