Title: Mutual Forcing: Dual-Mode Self-Evolution for Fast Autoregressive Audio-Video Character Generation

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2604.25819v1

Published Time: Wed, 29 Apr 2026 01:21:32 GMT

Number of Pages: 17

Markdown Content:
# Mutual Forcing: Dual-Mode Self-Evolution for Fast Autoregressive Audio-Video Character Generation 

Yupeng Zhou 1,2, Lianghua Huang 2, Zhifan Wu 2, Jiabao Wang 1, Yupeng Shi 2, Biao Jiang 2,3, Daquan Zhou 3,Yu Liu 2, Ming-Ming Cheng 1 , Qibin Hou 1†

> 1

VCIP, School of Computer Science, Nankai University 

> 2

Tongyi Lab 

> 3

Peking University 

> †

Corresponding author. 

## HVision@Nankai 

Abstract: In this work, we propose Mutual Forcing , a framework for fast autoregressive audio-video generation with long-horizon audio-video synchronization. Our approach addresses two key challenges: joint audio-video modeling and fast autoregressive generation. To ease joint audio-video optimization, we adopt a two-stage training strategy: we first train uni-modal generators and then couple them into a unified audio-video model for joint training on paired data. For streaming generation, we ask whether a native fast causal audio-video model can be trained directly, instead of following existing streaming distillation pipelines that typically train a bidirectional model first and then convert it into a causal generator through multiple distillation stages. Our answer is Mutual Forcing, which builds directly on native autoregressive model and integrates few-step and multi-step generation within a single weight-shared model, enabling self-distillation and improved training-inference consistency. The multi-step mode improves the few-step mode via self-distillation, while the few-step mode generates historical context during training to improve training-inference consistency; because the two modes share parameters, these two effects reinforce each other within a single model. Compared with prior approaches such as Self-Forcing, Mutual Forcing removes the need for an additional bidirectional teacher model, supports more flexible training sequence lengths, reduces training overhead, and allows the model to improve directly from real paired data rather than a fixed teacher. Experiments show that Mutual Forcing matches or surpasses strong baselines that require around 50 sampling steps while using only 4 to 8 steps, demonstrating substantial advantages in both efficiency and quality. 

Project Page: https://mutualforcing.github.io 

# 1 Introduction 

Existing research has focused mainly on conditional genera-tion tasks that operate within a single modality, such as text-to-video [ 43 , 28 , 22 ], image-to-video [ 35 , 32 , 27 ], and audio-to-video [ 12 , 13 , 47 ] generation. The native joint generation of videos with synchronized audio has not yet been thor-oughly explored. Many previous works [ 37 , 46 , 17 , 26 , 29 ]have made early attempts at joint audio-video genera-tion. However, they are typically limited to narrow-domain datasets or simple sounds. Motivated by rapid progress in video generation and the impressive audio-video generation results from closed-source models, we explore the joint gen-eration of audio-video on a larger scale in this work, in par-allel with several recent concurrent works [30, 44, 24, 58]. Training a joint audio-video model from scratch poses a sig-nificant optimization challenge, as the model must jointly satisfy two tightly coupled objectives: (i) maintaining seman-tic fidelity to the text condition, and (ii) achieving precise audio-video synchronization. These constraints are strongly intertwined, often making the early training signal unstable and leading to slow and suboptimal convergence. We first train an audio generator and a video generator separately to obtain well-formed single-modal models. These models are subsequently integrated for joint training. To facilitate seamless fusion, we keep the two branches architecturally identical and enable cross-modal interaction by coupling their self-attention, allowing audio and video tokens to at-tend to each other within the same attention computation. Meanwhile, unlike concurrent works [ 24 , 58 ] that focus on fixed-length (e.g., 5-second) generation via 50-step bidirec-tional diffusion sampling, we explore a fast autoregressive paradigm for audio-video joint generation. Formally, our model learns the conditional distribution pθ (xt | x<t ) to generate the next frame xt given previous frames x<t . This setting introduces two additional challenges: accelerating sampling and mitigating autoregressive degradation. Further, we ask a more fundamental question: instead of following 1                                                 

> arXiv:2604.25819v1 [cs.CV] 28 Apr 2026 Dual Mode
> Causal Model
> Model -Infer Video
> Infer Video As History
> Self -Evolution
> Causal
> Student
> Fix. Duration
> Teacher
> Distillation
> Causal Model
> …
> Real Video
> w/ oexternal teacher model
> Train -Infer Aligned
> Flexible training durations
> ……
> Teacher Forcing /
> Diffusion Forcing Self Forcing Mutual Forcing
> (1) Teacher Forcing /
> Diffusion Forcing
> (2) Self Forcing (3) Mutual Forcing
> Infer Video As History Real Video As History
> …History Context /KV Cache
> Previous Causal Distillation Manner (Self Forcing/ CausalVid ):
> ①Noncausal Pretrain ②ODE Dataset Gen ③ODE Pretrain ④Causal DMD
> Mutual Forcing Manner: ①Causal Pretrain ②Causal Dual -Mode Self -Evolution
> Input Image
> Mutual Forcing (ours) 8 NFE
> Teacher Forcing 100 NFE
> 0s 30s
> Hi everyone. Today I’m
> introducing Mutual
> Forcing, a fast streaming
> audio -video generation
> framework. It tackles two
> issues: quality
> degradation over time and
> slow speed ……
> ASR Control Fast
> Slow
> (a) Previous training paradigms versus Mutual Forcing (b) Illustration and advantages of Mutual Forcing

Figure 1 Illustration of Mutual Forcing. Left: Comparison between prior training paradigms and Mutual Forcing. Teacher forcing / diffusion forcing learns from real video history but suffers from training–inference mismatch. Self-Forcing replaces real history with model-inferred history, improving alignment at the cost of an additional fixed-duration bidirectional teacher, extra supervision, higher memory consumption, and limited training duration. Mutual Forcing, by contrast, starts from a native causal model rather than first training a bidirectional model and then converting it into a streaming generator through multiple distillation stages. It employs a weight-shared dual-mode design and a self-evolution strategy to unify few-step and multi-step generation within a single framework, enabling self-distillation, teacher-free training, and flexible training sequence lengths while maintaining training-inference consistency. Right: Qualitative results and key advantages of Mutual Forcing. On long-duration streaming audio-video generation, Mutual Forcing produces stable results with only 8 NFEs, compared with 100 NFEs for a teacher-forcing-trained baseline, demonstrating clear advantages in both efficiency and generation quality. It further combines flexible training durations, teacher-free optimization, and training–inference alignment in a single framework. 

existing streaming distillation pipelines [ 23 , 57 ] that typi-cally begin with a bidirectional model and then convert it into a causal generator through multiple distillation stages, can we train a native fast causal audio-video model directly and then endow it with few-step generation ability? We propose Mutual Forcing, a teacher-free method that adopts a dual-mode design, enabling the model to support both few-step and multi-step generation. Furthermore, the interac-tion between the two modes facilitates self-evolution during training (Fig. 1(a)). Mutual Forcing consists of two opti-mization objectives: a train-inference consistency objective and a self-distillation objective. The train-inference consis-tency objective uses the few-step mode to infer the history frames and trains the multi-step mode on real frames with flow-matching loss, whereas the self-distillation objective trains the few-step mode using the multi-step mode as the teacher. Because the dual modes share the same model pa-rameters, these two intertwined objectives become mutually reinforcing. Thus, we term the approach Mutual Forcing. As shown in Fig. 1(b), Mutual Forcing offers clear advan-tages over prior training paradigms. Compared with teacher forcing or diffusion forcing, Mutual Forcing achieves train– inference consistency and delivers a substantial speedup. Compared with self-forcing, Mutual Forcing does not re-quire an additional bidirectional teacher, supports more flex-ible supervision sequence lengths (instead of a fixed 5 s), and learns directly from real data rather than being capped by the teacher model’s performance. Our contributions are summarized as follows: • We present a practical training recipe for large-scale audio-video generation and propose a two stage train-ing scheme, which reduces the optimization difficulty, achieving strong performance among current research-purpose models. • We explore autoregressive streaming generation and introduce a streaming text control mechanism, where a global caption specifies the overall scene while times-tamped ASR tokens provide natural, fine-grained con-trol over the evolving speech content. • We introduce Mutual Forcing, a teacher-free approach that integrates dual modes within a single model and drives self-evolution via two coupled optimization ob-jectives, achieving step-reduced generation while mit-igating streaming degradation, and supports training with flexible sequence lengths. 

# 2 Related Work 

## 2.1 Conditional Video Generation 

Conditional video generation [ 43 , 28 , 13 , 12 , 27 , 31 , 53 ]synthesizes temporally coherent videos conditioned on di-verse modalities, including text, audio, reference images, and structured motion (e.g., poses). Early text-to-video dif-2fusion models extended image diffusion to the temporal domain and established widely used conditioning mecha-nisms for video synthesis [ 21 , 20 , 19 , 45 ]. Building upon latent diffusion [ 36 ], many works [ 16 , 15 , 52 ] adopted U-Net backbones with temporal modules and lightweight con-trol components. Recently, to better scale model capacity and capture long-range spatiotemporal dependencies, video diffusion architectures have increasingly shifted from U-Nets to Transformers, a trend further popularized by Sora’s technical report [ 33 ] and exemplified by recent large-scale models [55, 43, 28, 27, 61]. 

## 2.2 Audio-Video Generation 

Audio-video generation methods can be broadly catego-rized into two-stage and joint approaches. Two-stage meth-ods [ 13 , 12 , 47 ] first obtain audio (typically provided by users or synthesized by audio models) and then generate a video aligned with the given audio, usually by building on pretrained video generation models and adding audio-interaction modules (e.g., audio-conditioned adapters or cross-attention layers). In contrast, audio-video joint generation models produce audio and video jointly in a single model conditioned on the input prompt or other controls, which enables more flexible and open-ended creation beyond the constraints of a fixed input audio (e.g., simultaneously controlling sound events, timing, and visual dynamics, while maintaining coherent cross-modal synchronization). Early works [ 37 , 17 , 26 , 46 ,29 ] explored audio-video joint generation, but were often restricted to narrow-domain datasets or simple sound events. Motivated by the rapid progress in video generation and the impressive audio-video results from closed-source mod-els, we explore audio-video joint generation methods in this work, in parallel with several recent or concurrent ef-forts [ 30 , 44 , 24 , 58 ]. Compared with these concurrent works, our method focuses on longer-duration and faster streaming generation. 

## 2.3 Autoregressive Video Generation 

Autoregressive video generation models video synthesis as a causal process, where each frame (or short chunk) is gen-erated conditioned on previously generated context. Early autoregressive video generation was studied with GAN ob-jectives [ 42 , 14 ]. Token-based autoregressive Transformers further model videos as sequences of discrete codes [ 50 , 48 ], but are often computationally costly due to the large number of tokens per frame. These limitations have motivated frame-based autoregressive approaches, which predict the next frame or chunk given past context [ 57 , 40 , 3 ]. When causal generation must run online under strict latency budgets and without access to future frames, we refer to it as streaming video generation. Streaming diffusion introduces two practi-cal challenges: achieving few-step sampling and mitigating exposure bias under autoregressive error accumulation. For few-step sampling, non-streaming diffusion models are commonly accelerated via few-step distillation, such as DMD [ 56 ], consistency models [ 38 ], and ShortCut [ 11 ], with video extensions including PhaseDMD [ 10 ] and rCM [ 60 ]. Under streaming constraints (frame-wise causality and on-line decoding), consistency-model-based distillation is often less convenient to apply, and most existing systems instead adopt DMD-style distillation for efficiency [57, 23, 54, 8]. The other key challenge is exposure bias and the resulting error accumulation: models are trained with ground-truth context but must rely on their own predictions at inference, which can cause temporal drift over long horizons. Prior work mitigates this mismatch by (i) noisy-context training (diffusion forcing) [ 4 , 5, 57 ], (ii) self-/on-policy forcing that uses model-generated frames as training context, often paired with few-step distillation for efficiency [ 23 , 8], or (iii) restricting the accessible history to a windowed context and adding the first frame as an attention sink [54]. Despite these efforts, several key issues remain. First, Self-Forcing relies on an additional bidirectional teacher, which can cap performance and restrict supervision to fixed-length sequences; long videos therefore need to be split into shorter segments during training. Second, due to the substantial computational cost of DMD distillation, existing distillation-based approaches are typically demonstrated on small video-only models, and distillation for large-scale joint audio-video models remains underexplored. We therefore pro-pose Mutual Forcing, a streaming joint audio-video diffu-sion framework that addresses both efficiency and exposure-bias-induced degradation by unifying few-step inference and multi-step inference within a single weight-shared model. This design enables self-evolution during training without requiring an extra bidirectional teacher, and scales efficiently to large audio-video joint models. 

# 3 Method 

## 3.1 Problem Formulation 

Audio-Video Joint Generation. The joint generative frame-work fθ simultaneously outputs a video sequence and its temporally synchronized audio track. Let c represent a con-trol signal, which may comprise a text prompt, an image, or reference inputs in the form of audio or video. The target video and audio are expressed within latent token spaces as 

v1: Tv and a1: Ta , respectively, where Tv and Ta denote the number of tokens corresponding to each modality. Our ob-jective is to learn a conditional mapping from pure noise to clean audio-video latent representations. Let (v1: Tv , a1: Ta )

denote clean video/audio latent tokens, and let (zv 

> 1: Tv

, za 

> 1: Ta

)

3CrossAttn CrossAttn  

> Split
> FFN FFN

……………… …          

> KV -Cache / P receding Frames
> Few Step
> Distillation
> Aud Branch Vid Branch
> Few -step Mode Multi -step Mode
> Aud Branch Vid Branch
> Few -step Inference
> Text Encoder
> Video VAE Audio VAE
> Self Attention
> Merge

x n      

> Audio Loss Video Loss
> Aud Token/Branch Vid Token/Branch
> Dual -Mode Weight -Shared Audio -Video Diffusion Model
> Flow Matching Training
> Add Noise

Figure 2 Pipeline of Mutual Forcing for streaming audio-video joint diffusion generation. Our model operates in two weight-shared modes: a M ULTI -step mode and a F EW -step mode, enabling self-evolution without a teacher. During M ULTI -step training, the F EW -step mode generates the preceding tokens to form an inferred history; the M ULTI -step mode then predicts the next frame and is supervised by the ground-truth target. Conversely, the F EW -step mode is trained by distilling from the M ULTI -step mode. The backbone uses modality-specific VAEs and modality-specific branches; audio and video tokens are coupled and interact through shared self-attention. 

be pure noise latents sampled from a simple prior (e.g., i.i.d. Gaussian). Conditioned on a control signal c (e.g., text, image, or audio/video references), the generator fθ produces 

(ˆ v1: Tv , ˆa1: Ta ) = fθ

 zv 

> 1: Tv

, za 

> 1: Ta

| c , (1) where the outputs are expected to be coherent across modal-ities and temporally aligned throughout the sequence. In practice, we optimize the noise-to-data generator with a flow-matching loss. Let x = ( v1: Tv , a1: Ta ) be clean audio-video latents and z ∼ p(z) be pure noise. We sample t ∼ U (0 , 1) 

and form an interpolation xt = (1 − t)z + tx. The model predicts a velocity field vθ (xt, t, c ) and is trained with 

LFM = E∥vθ (xt, t, c ) − (x − z)∥22

. (2) 

Streaming Generation. Most existing audio-video gener-ators adopt a non-streaming formulation: Given a control signal c, the model generates a fixed-length audio-video clip (e.g., 5-10 seconds) in one shot. This setting typically as-sumes non-causal, full-context computation within the clip (also known as bidirectional-context training). While effec-tive for short clips, this setting is suboptimal for long-form generation because it (i) requires pre-specifying the horizon, (ii) scales memory and compute quadratically with the clip length under full-context attention, and (iii) often degrades when extrapolated beyond the training window size. In con-trast, streaming generation under a causal constraint, where the model incrementally generates audio and video over time (e.g., chunk by chunk), conditions only on c and previously generated outputs, enabling low-latency and long-horizon synthesis. We generate audio and video incrementally in chunks (one frame in our work). Let Ck denote the k-th chunk, containing a contiguous range of audio and video tokens. At streaming step k, the model only observes past tokens and previously generated chunks, and produces the next chunk according to 

pθ (Ck | c, C<k ), with C<k = {C 1, . . . , Ck−1}. (3) This causal factorization enables low-latency generation with linear (rather than quadratic under non-streaming) memory and compute scaling, while requiring the model to maintain long-horizon consistency as k grows. 

## 3.2 Model Architecture and Training 

Dual-branch Model. As shown on the right of Fig. 2, we adopt a unified audio-video backbone with a dual-branch Transformer architecture. Specifically, the model maintains two modality-specific branches, one for audio tokens and the other for video tokens, each equipped with self-attention, cross-attention, and feed-forward blocks. To enable audio-video interaction and synchronization, we fuse the self-attention computation across the two branches, allowing audio and video tokens to attend to each other directly. We first pre-train the two branches separately and then jointly fine-tune them end-to-end, producing synchronized audio and video predictions for streaming generation. 43D RoPE Embedding for Streaming Representations. To distinguish multimodal positional information, we introduce a 3D RoPE [ 39 ] encoding that factorizes position into tempo-ral, height, and width coordinates. We apply it to video, au-dio, and text tokens; for audio and text, the height and width coordinates are set to 0. All positions are computed from the actual timestamps of the corresponding audio, video, and text, ensuring temporal alignment across modalities. 

Two-stage Training Strategy. We adopt a two-stage training strategy to ease optimization under a coupled audio-video generation objective. In the first stage, we perform decou-pled pretraining by optimizing the audio and video branches with modality-specific losses, which stabilizes convergence and builds strong unimodal priors. In the second stage, we jointly fine-tune the full model on paired audio-video data, allowing cross-modal fusion layers to learn synchronization and improving overall audio-video consistency for streaming inference. 

## 3.3 Mutual Forcing for Fast Audio-Video Gen-eration 

Dual-Mode Weight-Shared Model. We build Mutual Forc-ing on flow matching and formulate streaming prediction as a conditional diffusion ODE generation problem. At each streaming step, our goal is to generate the next clean tar-get (e.g., the next audio-video chunk) conditioned on the previously observed or generated context c. To this end, we introduce a diffusion-time variable t ∈ [0 , 1] and con-sider a continuous trajectory {xt} that transforms a standard Gaussian noise sample at t = 0 to a clean sample at t = 1 .Following prior work, we parameterize this trajectory with a context-conditioned velocity field vθ (· | c) and use the probability flow ODE: 

dxt

dt = vθ (xt, t | c), t ∈ [0 , 1] , (4) where xt ∈ Rd denotes the state at diffusion time t, and 

c denotes the streaming context (e.g., previously generat-ed/observed frames). Intuitively, vθ (xt, t | c) prescribes an instantaneous “denoising direction” at noise level t that steers xt toward a cleaner sample consistent with c. In-tegrating this time-dependent vector field yields the state transition along the diffusion trajectory. Specifically, for any 

0 ≤ t1 < t 2 ≤ 1,

xt2 = xt1 +

Z t2

> t1

vθ (xt, t | c) d t. (5) To accommodate different inference budgets without main-taining multiple networks, we introduce a dual-mode ,weight-shared model Mθ . The key idea is to reuse the same parameters θ for both (i) a M ULTI -step regime, which fol-lows the ODE with small time steps, and (ii) a F EW -step regime, which makes large jumps in diffusion time by di-rectly predicting the corresponding interval displacement. Concretely, in the M ULTI mode, Mθ outputs the instanta-neous velocity used by standard ODE solvers: 

Mθ (xt, t, c ; MULTI ) = vθ (xt, t | c). (6) In the F EW mode, given a starting state xt1 and an inter-val endpoint t2, Mθ directly predicts the interval-averaged velocity over [t1, t 2] conditioned on the same context c:

Mθ (xt1 , t 1, t 2, c ; FEW ) ≈ 1

t2 − t1

Z t2

> t1

vθ (xt, t | c) d t. 

(7) Accordingly, the corresponding large-step update is given by 

xt2 ≈ xt1 + ( t2 − t1) Mθ (xt1 , t 1, t 2, c ; FEW ). (8) This design enables self-evolution through the interactive training described below, using either many small steps (M ULTI ) or a few large jumps (F EW ). 

Multi-step Mode Training Objective. In M ULTI mode, we train Mθ to predict the instantaneous velocity field under a 

self-evolving streaming context. Specifically, for streaming step k, we construct the conditioning context ck by running the same model in F EW mode and updating the context as 

ˆx(k)0 = FEW SAMPLE (Mθ , c k−1) ,ck = Update 



ck−1, ˆx(k)0



, (9) where FEW SAMPLE (·) denotes few-step ODE sampling with large time jumps. Update( ·) updates the streaming context by incorporating the newly generated chunk. As shown in Fig. 2, given this model-generated context (in-stead of ground-truth history), we minimize the standard flow-matching regression loss 

LMULTI (θ) = Ek, t 

h

Mθ (xt, t, c k; MULTI ) − ut

> 22

i

, (10) where k indexes the streaming step sampled from training sequences, t ∼ U [0 , 1] , xt is the intermediate state at dif-fusion time t constructed from the current training target (e.g., the next frame/segment), and ut is the corresponding flow-matching target velocity. Minimizing LMULTI encour-ages Mθ to match the target velocity distribution under its own generated context .

Few-step training objective. As described above, we use FEW -mode sampling to construct a self-evolving streaming context for M ULTI -mode training and also to enable fast streaming inference. Instead of instantiating two separate networks as in DMD-style distillation, we train a single dual-mode, weight-shared model. The F EW mode is optimized 5Table 1 Quantitative comparison with audio-driven baselines including Fantasy-Talking [ 47 ], Omni-Avatar [ 12 ], and Wan-S2v [ 13 ], as well as audio-video joint generation baselines including Universe-1 [ 44 ] and OVI [ 30 ]. NFE denotes the number of denoising network forward passes during sampling. With CFG, each denoising step uses two forward passes (i.e., 2 NFEs). Our Mutual Forcing achieves better performance with significantly fewer NFEs.                                                                                                           

> Method NFE AR Audio-Video Audio Video
> LSE-C ↑WER ↓FD ↓KL ↓CE ↑CU ↑PC ↓PQ ↑MS ↑AS ↑ID ↑
> Audio-driven Generation
> Fantasy-Talking 60 ✗2.48 −−−−−−−0.23 0.38 0.87 Omni-Avatar 100 ✗6.07 –––––––0.45 0.42 0.81 Wan-S2V 100 ✗5.20 –––––––0.54 0.40 0.85
> Audio-Video Joint Generation
> Universe-1 100 ✗6.01 0.26 0.48 0.45 3.61 3.64 1.80 4.06 0.38 0.41 0.85 OVI 100 ✗6.19 0.17 0.77 0.27 5.21 5.69 1.67 5.61 0.55 0.42 0.88 Mutual Forcing 4✓5.26 0.23 0.28 0.16 5.66 6.29 1.64 6.44 0.59 0.45 0.84
> Mutual Forcing 8✓6.35 0.11 0.38 0.21 5.77 6.51 1.61 6.83 0.37 0.47 0.88

via self-distillation: it learns to predict the interval displace-ment xt2 − xt1 over [t1, t 2] using targets computed from the same model by M ULTI -mode (with gradients stopped for the target computation). In practice, we observe a trade-off be-tween two common choices. (i) ShortCut -style objectives are typically stable and easy to optimize, but their performance deteriorates noticeably when pushing to extremely few sam-pling steps (e.g., 4 steps). (ii) DMD-style objectives often yield stronger few-step performance, but can be training-unstable, especially for large-scale audio-video generation models. We therefore adopt a hybrid objective that inherits the stability of ShortCut while retaining the effectiveness of DMD: 

LFEW (θ) = λ LDMD FEW (θ) + (1 − λ) LSC FEW (θ), (11) where LDMD FEW is the DMD-style loss and LFSC FEW enforces the ShortCut (step-consistency) loss. Different from the original DMD, we replace the external teacher with the M ULTI -step mode Mθ (xt, t, c ; MULTI ). Due to space limitations, the full computation of the few-step training objective is provided in Appendix D. 

Dual-Mode Self-Evolution. Streaming audio-video genera-tion typically requires reducing sampling steps to meet strict latency constraints. Accordingly, fast streaming diffusion models (e.g., Self-Forcing [ 23 ] and CausVid [ 57 ]) are often obtained by distilling a multi-step teacher into a few-step student. However, this paradigm has two limitations: (i) the student is bounded by the teacher’s capability and the super-vision is often effective only over relatively short horizons (e.g., a few seconds in the Self-Forcing setting); moreover, Self-Forcing requires an additional bidirectional teacher; and (ii) maintaining separate teacher/student models incurs sub-stantial training overhead for large audio-video generators. To address both issues, Mutual Forcing employs a dual-mode, weight-shared model with M ULTI -step (high-quality) and FEW -step (fast) modes, and optimizes them jointly: 

min  

> θ

L(θ) = LMULTI (θ) + LFEW (θ). (12) Here, LMULTI is optimized with supervision from paired train-ing data, continually improving the shared parameters used by both modes, while LFEW distills from the M ULTI -step mode with stop-gradient. This forms a closed learning loop: as the M ULTI mode improves with training, it provides an ever-updated target for the F EW mode without an external teacher, enabling self-evolution while reducing training over-head. 

# 4 Experiments 

## 4.1 Implementation Details 

Our model comprises two modality-specific branches, an audio branch and a video branch, each branch contains 7B parameters, resulting in 14B parameters in total. Our training data consists of three parts: the text-to-audio data from Emilia [ 18 ], the text-to-video data from Panda70M [ 6], and paired audio-video data mainly from Seamless [ 1], SpeakerVid-5M [ 59 ], and InternVid [ 49 ]. Under Mutual Forcing, we support three control signals: (i) a first-frame conditioning signal, (ii) a global text prompt provided as a high-level caption describing the overall scene while avoid-ing speech content, and (iii) a streaming ASR control signal for speech segments. We compute multimodal positional indices with RoPE based on the actual timestamps, ensur-ing consistent temporal correspondence among video, audio, and text tokens. More implementation details can be found in Appendix A. 6Universe Ovi                             

> MutualForcing
> (Ours)
> Have YouTube pulled up or Instagram pulled up,
> and you're just going through a few
> Bluetooth is key i'll show you that in just second but
> primarily intended to help
> Bluetooth for the key i'll show you that in just a second
> but primarily it's intended to help you
> Bluetooth as a key i'll show you that in just a second but
> primarily it's intended to help you
> Have our YouTube pulled up or Instagram pulled up,
> and you just going through few things
> Have our YouTube pulled up or Instagram pulled up,
> and you're just going through a few things
> Is still pretty high. Yeah, it's not as high as it was a month ago,
> or it's not as high as it was over the summer.
> Hundred millimeters I'm thinking about pulling this guy out
> and setting it up.
> Is still pretty high. Yeah, it's not as high was a month ago, or
> it's not it was over the summer.
> Is still pretty high. Yeah, it's not as high as a month ago, or it's
> not as high with over the summer .
> Hundred millimeters I'm thinking about pulling this guy out
> and setting up .
> Hundred millimeters I'm thinking about pulling pulling this
> guy out and setting it up.
> Universe Ovi
> MutualForcing
> (Ours)

Figure 3 Qualitative comparison with Audio-Video Joint Generation Model Universe-1 [ 44 ] and Ovi [ 30 ]. We visualize generated frame sequences and the corresponding speech transcripts. Mutual Forcing (Ours) produces more accurate spoken content while maintaining coherent and temporally consistent visual progression, despite using substantially fewer sampling steps. 

## 4.2 Quantitative Comparison 

Following Universe [ 44 ] and JoVA [ 24 ], we evaluate quan-titative metrics in three aspects: (1) audio-video alignment, (2) video quality, and (3) audio quality. For alignment, we report lip-sync performance using the SyncNet confidence score [ 7 ] (LSE-C). For video quality, we report Motion Score (MS), Aesthetic Score (AS), and identity consistency (ID), computed based on VBench [ 25 ]. For audio quality, we re-port distributional distances (KL and FD) using CLAP [ 51 ], AudioBox-Aesthetics scores [ 41 ] (PQ/PC/CE/CU), and text-to-speech accuracy measured by Word Error Rate (WER), by comparing transcripts recognized by SenseVoice [ 2] with the ground-truth text. The quantitative results are reported in Tab. 1. NFE (Number of Function Evaluations) denotes the number of denoising network forward passes during sampling; under classifier-free guidance (CFG), each sampling step requires two for-ward passes. Since our method learns few-step inference during self-evolution, it does not require CFG at inference time. Our Mutual Forcing achieves competitive or superior performance on most key metrics across audio-video syn-chronization, audio quality, and video quality. Moreover, these gains are achieved with substantially fewer NFEs (4 or 8 vs. 100), yielding both improved quality and faster inference. 

## 4.3 Qualitative Comparison 

As shown in Fig. 3, we provide a qualitative comparison against joint audio-video generation models, Universe-1 [ 44 ]and Ovi [ 30 ]. Consistent with the quantitative results in Tab. 1, Mutual Forcing produces spoken content that better matches the intended lexical and phonetic structure, while preserving coherent visual dynamics and temporal continu-ity across frames. Importantly, Mutual Forcing achieves these gains with substantially fewer sampling steps, further demonstrating the effectiveness of our approach. 74.4 Ablation Study 

Analysis of the Weight-Shared Design. To understand the role of the weight-shared design in Mutual Forcing, we analyze the attention behaviors of the few-step and multi-step modes to better understand why this design is effective. Since the two modes share the same model parameters, suc-cessful training requires them to develop compatible internal dynamics despite operating under different generation sched-ules. Fig. 4(a) shows that the attention maps of the two modes are highly consistent across all layers, with similar-ity above 97%. This strong agreement indicates that the self-evolution strategy effectively aligns the two modes at the representation level, allowing the few-step mode to in-herit the robust generation behavior of the multi-step mode without introducing a separate teacher model. 

Analysis of Temporal Attention Distribution. In Fig. 4(b), we compare token attention allocation when using a token in the 10th second as the query. The original teacher-forcing model tends to place disproportionate attention on a small number of past frames, which may amplify errors when these frames become unreliable during inference. In contrast, Mutual Forcing produces a more balanced temporal attention distribution, suggesting that the model learns to aggregate information from a broader historical context. This more stable attention behavior helps mitigate error accumulation and progressive degradation in long-duration generation. 0 5 10 15 20 25          

> Layer
> 0.0
> 0.2
> 0.4
> 0.6
> 0.8
> 1.0
> Cosine similarity
> (a) Attention Consistency
> of Few and Multi Modes
> w/o Weight Sharing
> Weight Sharing
> 0s 1s 2s 3s 4s 5s 6s 7s 8s 9s
> Time (s)
> After Mutual Forcing Training
> Original Teacher Forcing Model
> (b) Token Attention Allocation
> in the 10th Second

Figure 4 Attention analysis of Mutual Forcing. (a) Attention consistency between the few and multi modes across layers. The consistently high similarity (over 97%) indicates that training the teacher with the student’s inference context successfully aligns the attention behaviors of the two modes, explaining the effectiveness of Mutual Forcing in mitigating degradation. (b) Token attention allocation in the 10th second. Compared with the original teacher forcing model, Mutual Forcing leads to a more balanced tempo-ral attention distribution, reducing over-reliance on a few critical frames and thus alleviating progressive degradation. 

Hybrid Distillation. As introduced in Sec. 3.3, our Mutual Forcing is built on a dual-mode weight-sharing model that supports both multi-step and few-step generation. The few-step mode is trained via self-distillation from the model’s own multi-step mode. In practice, ShortCut distillation [ 11 ]is stable but yields weaker few-step performance, while DMD [ 56 ] provides stronger few-step quality but can be 

Table 2 Ablation on distillation objectives for few-step genera-tion. We compare ShortCut (SC), DMD, and their hybrid combina-tion under the same 4-step budget. The hybrid SC+DMD achieves the best audio quality across all metrics (PC/PQ/CE/CU), indicating complementary supervision from the two objectives. Distillation Step PC ↓ PQ ↑ CE ↑ CU ↑

SC DMD 

✓ 4 2.28 5.34 4.82 5.06 

✓ 4 1.69 5.63 5.12 5.46 

✓ ✓ 4 1.64 6.44 5.66 6.29 Hybrid 4 Step DMD 4 Step ShortCut 4 Step 

Figure 5 Qualitative comparison of distillation strategies in the 4-step regime. Our hybrid self-distillation (SC+DMD) produces sharper and clearer boundaries for fast-moving objects (e.g., the hand in this example), while the ShortCut-only model fails to generate the fast motion properly. 

unstable. We therefore adopt a hybrid distillation strategy that combines SC and DMD, which leads to better audio and video quality. As shown in Tab. 2, the hybrid model achieves a clear im-provement in audio quality across all four audio metrics (PC, PQ, CE, and CU). Under the same 4-step budget, Fig. 5 further shows that the hybrid strategy also performs well on video in the few-step regime, producing sharper and clearer boundaries for fast-moving objects (e.g., the hand in the ex-ample), whereas the ShortCut-only model fails to generate the fast-moving hand properly. Overall, these results suggest that our hybrid self-distillation strategy combining SC and DMD provides complementary supervision, and that their combination is crucial for high-quality few-step streaming audio-video generation. 

Human Evaluation. To evaluate audio-video synchroniza-tion and perceived quality, we added a human preference study against Ovi and Universe-1. Participants anonymously compared outputs from two models and selected the better one or a tie. In total, we collected 106 valid questionnaires. As shown in Fig. 6, Mutual Forcing obtains consistently 8Table 3 Long-horizon quality over time. We report audio (CU/CE) and video (AS/ID) metrics over three temporal windows (0–5 s, 5–15 s, and 15–25 s). We compare Mutual Forcing with DMD distillation (DMD w/ TF) and ShortCut distillation (ShortCut w/ TF), both trained with teacher forcing, as well as Self-Forcing. Mutual Forcing maintains consistently high quality across all windows, indicating robust long-duration generation, whereas these baselines exhibit pronounced degradation over time. Distillation Teacher 0–5s 5–15s 15–25s Audio Video Audio Video Audio Video CE ↑ CU ↑ AS ↑ ID ↑ CE ↑ CU ↑ AS ↑ ID ↑ CE ↑ CU ↑ AS ↑ ID ↑

DMD Causal 5.25 6.46 0.39 0.79 4.90 6.28 0.25 0.64 3.92 5.67 0.22 0.47 ShortCut Causal 5.38 5.73 0.46 0.84 5.17 5.61 0.39 0.78 4.94 5.47 0.32 0.64 Self-Forcing Causal 4.37 5.11 0.43 0.80 3.43 3.66 0.40 0.68 2.78 3.03 0.38 0.62 Mutual Forcing - 5.70 6.42 0.46 0.85 5.75 6.54 0.46 0.84 5.41 6.38 0.46 0.85 Visual   

> Preference
> Audio
> Alignment
> Overall
> Quality
> 0
> 20
> 40
> 60
> 80
> 100
> Percentage (%)
> 56.5
> 30.4
> 13.0
> 67.4
> 23.9
> 8.7
> 60.9
> 28.3
> 10.9
> vs. Ovi
> Visual
> Preference
> Audio
> Alignment
> Overall
> Quality
> 91.7
> 8.3
> 93.3
> 6.7
> 93.3
> 6.7
> vs. Universe-1
> Win Loss Tie

Figure 6 Human evaluation results against Ovi and Universe-1 on three criteria: visual preference, audio alignment, and overall quality. Each stacked bar shows the percentages of Win, Loss, and Tie. Our method consistently achieves higher win rates across all evaluation dimensions, with especially large margins over Universe-1. 

higher win rates across visual preference, audio alignment, and overall quality. In particular, the margin over Universe-1 is substantial across all three criteria, and Mutual Forcing also maintains clear advantages over Ovi. Overall, the hu-man evaluation confirms that the gains of Mutual Forcing are not only reflected in automatic metrics, but are also evident in human judgment. 

Long-Video Inference Comparison. Although our dual-mode self-evolution is not trained on very long video clips, to study its behavior over longer horizons, we evaluate on 25-second clips and report metrics over three temporal windows (0–5 s, 5–15 s, and 15–25 s); see Tab. 3. This windowed eval-uation allows us to examine quality changes over time. Since there is no publicly available long audio-video generation baseline under our setting, we implement three baselines based on conventional distillation with a streaming teacher: (i) DMD with teacher forcing, (ii) a shortcut model with teacher forcing, and (iii) DMD with self-forcing. For (iii), when training with a streaming teacher, we construct the teacher context from ground-truth video, and denoise the 

Table 4 Generation speed comparison. We report generation throughput under each method’s corresponding inference hardware setting. 

Method Res. Device FPS Speed 

Universe-1 480 ×768 4 GPUs 0.6 Slow Ovi 704 ×1280 8 GPUs 1.3 Slow Mutual Forcing 192 ×336 1 GPU 30 Real-time 

Mutual Forcing 480 ×768 1 GPU 12 Fast 

Mutual Forcing 704 ×1280 1 GPU 3.5 Fast 

student generated samples using the teacher to obtain real score distillation targets. This design reduces long-horizon degradation and helps prevent training collapse when using a causal teacher. As shown in Tab. 3, Mutual Forcing main-tains consistent performance across all temporal windows. Although we do not train Mutual Forcing on 25-second se-quences, Mutual Forcing generalizes well to longer-horizon inference. This is because our dual-mode self-evolution ex-poses the model to partially self-generated contexts during training. As a result, the model learns to handle its own prediction drift and mitigates exposure bias, avoiding rapid degradation at inference time. In contrast, the baselines de-grade progressively over time in both video and audio quality. Overall, these results suggest that Mutual Forcing is robust to long-horizon streaming drift, and better for practical long-form generation. 

Inference Time. We compare generation throughput with prior joint audio-video baselines, Ovi and Universe-1. Since both baselines rely on bidirectional diffusion and do not support streaming autoregressive generation, we report the practical throughput of each method under its correspond-ing inference configuration, where the primary difference lies in the number of GPUs used at inference time. As shown in Tab. 4, Universe-1 and Ovi achieve 0.6 FPS and 1.3 FPS, respectively, while requiring 4 and 8 GPUs. In contrast, Mutual Forcing runs on a single GPU and reaches 30 FPS at 192 ×336, 12 FPS at 480 ×768, and 3.5 FPS at 704 ×1280. These results show that Mutual Forcing achieves 9substantially higher practical throughput and supports real-time generation at low resolution as well as fast-streaming generation at higher resolutions. 

# 5 Conclusions 

We introduced Mutual Forcing, a fast streaming framework for joint audio-video generation. Our two-stage training first pretrains audio and video branches separately and then jointly trains them on paired audio-video data within a sin-gle, shared architecture, without adding separate cross-modal adapter modules. To mitigate streaming degradation caused by train–inference context mismatch, we propose a unified dual-mode self-evolution scheme that shares weights be-tween few-step and multi-step generation, improving quality while keeping inference efficient. Experiments show that Mutual Forcing matches or outperforms strong 50-step base-lines using only 4–8 steps, enabling low-latency streaming generation. 10 Appendix 

This appendix includes implementation details (Appendix A), pseudocode (Appendix B), limitations (Appendix C), the complete objectives and loss computation for hybrid self-distillation (Appendix D). 

# A Implementation Details 

We adopt the Wan2.2 VAE [ 43 ] and the Stable Audio 2.0 VAE [ 9 ] to encode video and audio into latent-space tokens. We first pretrain the video and audio branches separately with a batch size of 256 until the training losses stabilize. We then jointly train both branches for 100k iterations with a batch size of 128 using autoregressive teacher forcing. This checkpoint is used as the base model and is further fine-tuned with Mutual Forcing for 20k steps. Under Mutual Forcing , we support three control signals: (i) first-frame conditioning, (ii) a global text prompt that provides a high-level caption describing the overall scene while avoiding speech content, and (iii) a streaming ASR control signal for speech segments. The global caption is generated by Gemini 2.5 Pro and prepended to the beginning of the streaming sequence. The ASR signal is produced by Whisper [ 34 ], aligned to the audio-video stream with timestamps, and inserted into the multimodal token sequence via temporal interleaving. We compute multimodal positional indices with RoPE based on the actual timestamps, ensuring consistent temporal correspondence among video, audio, and text tokens. We train all models with AdamW using a learning rate of 5 × 10 −5, β1 = 0 .9, β2 = 0 .95 , and weight decay 0.02 . We apply gradient clipping with a maximum ℓ2 norm of 0.5. During training, we maintain an exponential moving average (EMA) of model parameters, using a decay of 0.999 for pretraining and 0.99 for Mutual Forcing training. During Mutual Forcing 

training, we set the classifier-free guidance scale to CFG = 5 .0 for the few-step supervision in both the audio and video branches. 

# B Pseudocode 

Algorithm 1 Dual-Mode Weight-Shared Streaming Generation 

Require: Training dataset D, hyperparameter λ

Require: Initial model parameters θ, context buffer size K 

> 1:

Training Phase:  

> 2:

while not converged do  

> 3:

Sample mini-batch from D 

> 4:

Multi-Step Mode Training:  

> 5:

for r = 1 , 2, . . . , R do  

> 6:

ˆx(r)0 ← FEW SAMPLE (Mθ , c r−1) 

> 7:

cr ← UPDATE (cr−1, ˆx(r)0 ) 

> 8:

Sample t ∼ U [0 , 1]  

> 9:

Construct xt and target velocity ut from training data  

> 10:

LMULTI ← ∥ Mθ (xt, t, c r ; MULTI ) − ut∥22 

> 11:

end for  

> 12:

Few-Step Mode Training:  

> 13:

Sample time intervals [t1, t 2] 

> 14:

LDMD FEW ← DMD LOSS (Mθ (xt1 , t 1, t 2, c ; FEW ))  

> 15:

LSC FEW ← SHORT CUT LOSS (Mθ (xt1 , t 1, t 2, c ; FEW ))  

> 16:

LFEW ← λLDMD FEW + (1 − λ)LSC FEW  

> 17:

Optimization:  

> 18:

L(θ) ← L MULTI (θ) + LFEW (θ) 

> 19:

θ ← θ − η∇θ L(θ) 

> 20:

end while 

11 C Limitation. 

Our work has two main limitations. First, data coverage remains constrained: As a research effort, we cannot curate training data at the scale and diversity of commercial systems, and large-scale paired audio-video datasets are still relatively scarce. As a result, Mutual Forcing may underperform in scenarios that require broader coverage, such as multi-speaker interactions or first-person (egocentric) videos, where paired data is particularly limited. Second, despite our Mutual Forcing efficiently enables few-step inference and mitigates streaming degradation, real-time generation at high video resolutions remains challenging. We leave further improving efficiency as future work, including context compression for long streams and distillation to even fewer sampling steps. 

# D Hybrid Self-Distillation: Objectives and Loss Computation 

Setup and notation. We use a dual-mode, weight-shared denoiser with two sampling modes: M ULTI (a multi-step schedule) and F EW (a fast few-step schedule). To unify ShortCut and DMD training, we formulate both objectives on a time interval 

(t1, t 2) with 0 < t 1 < t 2 < 1, where t1 denotes the starting (noisier) level and t2 denotes the ending (less noisy) level of one FEW -mode update. Accordingly, we extend the time conditioning from a single timestep to a pair of timesteps and write the denoiser as 

Mθ (xt1 , t 1, t 2, c ; ·), (13) where xt1 ∈ Rd is the noisy input at the start of the interval, and c is the conditioning (e.g., text, audio, or streaming context). Intuitively, (t1, t 2) specifies a transition from a noisier state to a cleaner state, allowing the network to predict the corresponding large-step displacement from t1 to t2. We use sg( ·) to denote stop-gradient. Besides the dual-mode model, we maintain a fake model μϕ (with parameters ϕ) with the same interval conditioning, 

μϕ(xt2 , t 1, t 2, c ), (14) whose role is to approximate the score, or equivalently the denoising behavior, of the current F EW -mode sample distribution, as in DMD. This model is trained online to track the evolving student distribution. 

## D.1 Student prediction on an interval (flow matching, v-prediction) 

Forward perturbation. We adopt the standard flow-matching interpolation between data and Gaussian noise. Given a clean sample x0 and ϵ ∼ N (0 , I ), we construct 

xt = t x 0 + (1 − t) ϵ, t ∈ (0 , 1) . (15) 

Interval-conditioned v-prediction (F EW mode). To unify ShortCut and DMD training, we condition the student network on a timestep pair (t1, t 2) with 0 < t 1 < t 2 < 1, where t1 is the starting (noisier) level and t2 is the ending (less noisy) level of one F EW -mode update. In this appendix, the student prediction is always produced by running the shared model in F EW mode: 

ˆvFEW  

> θ

= Mθ (xt1 , t 1, t 2, c ; FEW ), (16) where xt1 is the noisy input at the start of the interval. (Teacher signals are computed separately using the M ULTI mode with stop-gradient, as described in the following sections.) 

Recovering x0 from v. We recover an x0 estimate from the predicted velocity using the same conversion rule as in the main text: 

ˆx0 = xt1 + (1 − t1) ˆ vθ . (17) 

## D.2 DMD-style distribution matching for the F EW mode 

In our implementation, the teacher (M ULTI ) is evaluated on a re-noised student prediction at an auxiliary noise level. Importantly, the M ULTI -step teacher does not take the interval endpoint t2 as input; it is conditioned only on the current noise level. Therefore, we compute teacher and fake scores as functions of (xτ , τ, c ), while the student (F EW ) remains interval-conditioned on (t1, t 2).12 Student prediction on the interval. Given (xt1 , t 1, t 2, c ), the student (F EW ) predicts an interval-conditioned velocity and converts it to an x0 estimate: 

ˆvFEW  

> θ

= Mθ (xt1 , t 1, t 2, c ; FEW ), ˆxFEW  

> 0

= xt1 + (1 − t1) ˆ vFEW  

> θ

. (18) 

Sampling an auxiliary noise level and re-noising. We sample an auxiliary noise level τ within the interval, 

τ ∼ U (t1, t 2), (19) and construct the teacher/fake input by re-noising the student prediction under the same forward process xt = (1 − t)ϵ + tx 0:

˜xτ = (1 − τ ) ϵ + τ ˆxFEW  

> 0

, ϵ ∼ N (0 , I ). (20) 

Teacher and fake predictions (single-time conditioning). We evaluate the teacher (M ULTI ) and the fake model on the common input (˜ xτ , τ ). The teacher uses classifier-free guidance (CFG) with scale w. Concretely, we compute the conditional and unconditional teacher predictions 

ˆvcond = sg  Mθ (˜ xτ , τ, c ; MULTI ), ˆvuncond = sg  Mθ (˜ xτ , τ, ∅; MULTI ), (21) and combine them via 

ˆvMULTI  

> θ

= ˆ vuncond + w(ˆ vcond − ˆvuncond ), ˆxMULTI  

> 0

= ˜ xτ + (1 − τ ) ˆ vMULTI  

> θ

. (22) For the fake model, we use the conditional prediction 

ˆvfake = μϕ(˜ xτ , τ, c ), ˆxfake 0 = ˜ xτ + (1 − τ ) ˆ vfake . (23) 

DMD matching loss (implemented via ˆx0 difference). Let ˆxMULTI  

> 0

(˜ xτ , τ, c ) and ˆxfake 0 (˜ xτ , τ, c ) denote the teacher and fake-model x0 predictions computed on the same re-noised input. We define the DMD matching loss for training the F EW 

mode as 

LDMD  

> FEW

(θ) = Et1,t 2,τ,ϵ,c 

h

sg  ˆxfake 0 (˜ xτ , τ, c ) − sg  ˆxMULTI  

> 0

(˜ xτ , τ, c ) 22

i

, (24) where ˜xτ = (1 − τ )ϵ + τ sg(ˆ xFEW  

> 0

) (as defined above). In practice, this loss is used to produce a distribution-matching signal for updating the F EW -mode student, while the teacher branch and the fake model are treated as constants (stop-gradient). 

DMD loss for updating the F EW mode. Let ˆxFEW  

> 0

= ˆ xFEW  

> 0

(xt1 , t 1, t 2, c ) be the F EW -mode x0 estimate. We form a stop-gradient target by applying a single correction step using the fake and teacher predictions on the re-noised sample 

(˜ xτ , τ, c ):

x⋆ 

> 0

= sg 



ˆxFEW  

> 0

+  ˆxfake 0 (˜ xτ , τ, c ) − ˆxMULTI  

> 0

(˜ xτ , τ, c )

. (25) We then update only the F EW mode by minimizing 

LDMD  

> FEW

(θ) = E

h

ˆxFEW  

> 0

− x⋆

> 0
> 22

i

. (26) 

## D.3 ShortCut objective for the F EW mode 

We train the F EW mode with the ShortCut (SC) objective, which regresses an interval-conditioned update over (t1, t 2) with 

t1 < t 2 (from higher to lower noise). Given a sampled interval, we set the midpoint tm = ( t1 + t2)/2. The F EW -mode loss is 

LSC FEW (θ) = Et1<t 2

h

Mθ (xt1 , t 1, t 2, c ; FEW ) − sg(∆ target ) 22

i

, (27) where sg( ·) denotes stop-gradient so that ∆target is treated as a fixed target when updating the F EW branch. 

Targets for different interval lengths. We use different targets depending on the interval length ∆t = t2 − t1.13 CFG distillation (short intervals, ∆t ≤ δ). For short intervals, we distill the classifier-free guidance (CFG) behavior from the M ULTI mode. We first compute the unconditional and conditional teacher predictions at (xt1 , t 1):

ˆ∆uncond = sg  Mθ (xt1 , t 1, ∅; MULTI ), ˆ∆cond = sg  Mθ (xt1 , t 1, c ; MULTI ). (28) We then form the guided prediction using the standard CFG combination with scale wCFG :

ˆ∆cfg = ˆ∆uncond + wCFG 

  ˆ∆cond − ˆ∆uncond 

, (29) and use it as the SC regression target: 

∆target = ˆ∆cfg . (30) 

Step distillation (long intervals, ∆t > δ ). For long intervals, SC enforces a two-hop composition constraint. Since 

Mθ (xta , t a, t b, c ; FEW ) predicts a velocity (slope) that is not scaled by the interval length, we compose two sub-intervals by matching the total displacement over (t1, t 2):

∆target = (tm − t1) Mθ (xt1 , t 1, t m, c ; FEW ) + ( t2 − tm) Mθ (xtm , t m, t 2, c ; FEW )

t2 − t1

, (31) where tm = ( t1 + t2)/2 and xtm is obtained by applying the first F EW -mode update on (t1, t m).

## D.4 Total objective 

We train the F EW mode with a hybrid self-distillation objective that combines two complementary terms: a DMD-based distribution-matching loss and a ShortCut (SC) interval-consistency loss. The total objective is a convex combination of the two: 

LFEW (θ) = λ LDMD FEW (θ) + (1 − λ) LSC FEW (θ), (32) where we set λ = 13 (i.e., DMD has weight 1/3 and SC has weight 2/3). 

# References 

[1] Vasu Agrawal, Akinniyi Akinyemi, Kathryn Alvero, Morteza Behrooz, Julia Buffalini, Fabio Maria Carlucci, Joy Chen, Junming Chen, Zhang Chen, Shiyang Cheng, et al. Seamless interaction: Dyadic audiovisual motion modeling and large-scale dataset. arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.22554 , 2025. [2] Keyu An, Qian Chen, Chong Deng, Zhihao Du, Changfeng Gao, Zhifu Gao, Yue Gu, Ting He, Hangrui Hu, Kai Hu, et al. Funaudiollm: Voice understanding and generation foundation models for natural interaction between humans and llms. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.04051 , 2024. [3] Jake Bruce, Michael D Dennis, Ashley Edwards, Jack Parker-Holder, Yuge Shi, Edward Hughes, Matthew Lai, Aditi Mavalankar, Richie Steigerwald, Chris Apps, et al. Genie: Generative interactive environments. In Forty-first International Conference on Machine Learning , 2024. [4] Boyuan Chen, Diego Mart ´ı Mons ´o, Yilun Du, Max Simchowitz, Russ Tedrake, and Vincent Sitzmann. Diffusion forcing: Next-token prediction meets full-sequence diffusion. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems ,37:24081–24125, 2024. [5] Guibin Chen, Dixuan Lin, Jiangping Yang, Chunze Lin, Junchen Zhu, Mingyuan Fan, Hao Zhang, Sheng Chen, Zheng Chen, Chengcheng Ma, et al. Skyreels-v2: Infinite-length film generative model. arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.13074 , 2025. [6] Tsai-Shien Chen, Aliaksandr Siarohin, Willi Menapace, Ekaterina Deyneka, Hsiang-wei Chao, Byung Eun Jeon, Yuwei Fang, Hsin-Ying Lee, Jian Ren, Ming-Hsuan Yang, et al. Panda-70m: Captioning 70m videos with multiple cross-modality teachers. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition , pages 13320–13331, 2024. [7] Joon Son Chung and Andrew Zisserman. Out of time: automated lip sync in the wild. In Asian conference on computer vision , pages 251–263. Springer, 2016. [8] Justin Cui, Jie Wu, Ming Li, Tao Yang, Xiaojie Li, Rui Wang, Andrew Bai, Yuanhao Ban, and Cho-Jui Hsieh. Self-forcing++: Towards minute-scale high-quality video generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2510.02283 , 2025. 14 [9] Zach Evans, Julian D Parker, CJ Carr, Zack Zukowski, Josiah Taylor, and Jordi Pons. Stable audio open. In ICASSP 2025-2025 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP) , pages 1–5. IEEE, 2025. [10] Xiangyu Fan, Zesong Qiu, Zhuguanyu Wu, Fanzhou Wang, Zhiqian Lin, Tianxiang Ren, Dahua Lin, Ruihao Gong, and Lei Yang. Phased dmd: Few-step distribution matching distillation via score matching within subintervals. arXiv preprint arXiv:2510.27684 , 2025. [11] Kevin Frans, Danijar Hafner, Sergey Levine, and Pieter Abbeel. One step diffusion via shortcut models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.12557 , 2024. [12] Qijun Gan, Ruizi Yang, Jianke Zhu, Shaofei Xue, and Steven Hoi. Omniavatar: Efficient audio-driven avatar video generation with adaptive body animation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.18866 , 2025. [13] Xin Gao, Li Hu, Siqi Hu, Mingyang Huang, Chaonan Ji, Dechao Meng, Jinwei Qi, Penchong Qiao, Zhen Shen, Yafei Song, et al. Wan-s2v: Audio-driven cinematic video generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2508.18621 , 2025. [14] Songwei Ge, Thomas Hayes, Harry Yang, Xi Yin, Guan Pang, David Jacobs, Jia-Bin Huang, and Devi Parikh. Long video generation with time-agnostic vqgan and time-sensitive transformer. In European Conference on Computer Vision ,pages 102–118. Springer, 2022. [15] Yuwei Guo, Ceyuan Yang, Anyi Rao, Maneesh Agrawala, Dahua Lin, and Bo Dai. Sparsectrl: Adding sparse controls to text-to-video diffusion models. In European Conference on Computer Vision , pages 330–348. Springer, 2024. [16] Yuwei Guo, Ceyuan Yang, Anyi Rao, Zhengyang Liang, Yaohui Wang, Yu Qiao, Maneesh Agrawala, Dahua Lin, and Bo Dai. Animatediff: Animate your personalized text-to-image diffusion models without specific tuning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.04725 , 2023. [17] Moayed Haji-Ali, Willi Menapace, Aliaksandr Siarohin, Ivan Skorokhodov, Alper Canberk, Kwot Sin Lee, Vicente Ordonez, and Sergey Tulyakov. Av-link: Temporally-aligned diffusion features for cross-modal audio-video generation. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision , pages 19373–19385, 2025. [18] Haorui He, Zengqiang Shang, Chaoren Wang, Xuyuan Li, Yicheng Gu, Hua Hua, Liwei Liu, Chen Yang, Jiaqi Li, Peiyang Shi, et al. Emilia: An extensive, multilingual, and diverse speech dataset for large-scale speech generation. In 

2024 IEEE Spoken Language Technology Workshop (SLT) , pages 885–890. IEEE, 2024. [19] Yingqing He, Tianyu Yang, Yong Zhang, Ying Shan, and Qifeng Chen. Latent video diffusion models for high-fidelity long video generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2211.13221 , 2022. [20] Jonathan Ho, William Chan, Chitwan Saharia, Jay Whang, Ruiqi Gao, Alexey Gritsenko, Diederik P Kingma, Ben Poole, Mohammad Norouzi, David J Fleet, et al. Imagen video: High definition video generation with diffusion models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.02303 , 2022. [21] Jonathan Ho, Tim Salimans, Alexey Gritsenko, William Chan, Mohammad Norouzi, and David J Fleet. Video diffusion models. Advances in neural information processing systems , 35:8633–8646, 2022. [22] Wenyi Hong, Ming Ding, Wendi Zheng, Xinghan Liu, and Jie Tang. Cogvideo: Large-scale pretraining for text-to-video generation via transformers. arXiv preprint arXiv:2205.15868 , 2022. [23] Xun Huang, Zhengqi Li, Guande He, Mingyuan Zhou, and Eli Shechtman. Self forcing: Bridging the train-test gap in autoregressive video diffusion. arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.08009 , 2025. [24] Xiaohu Huang, Hao Zhou, Qiangpeng Yang, Shilei Wen, and Kai Han. Jova: Unified multimodal learning for joint video-audio generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2512.13677 , 2025. [25] Ziqi Huang, Yinan He, Jiashuo Yu, Fan Zhang, Chenyang Si, Yuming Jiang, Yuanhan Zhang, Tianxing Wu, Qingyang Jin, Nattapol Chanpaisit, et al. Vbench: Comprehensive benchmark suite for video generative models. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition , pages 21807–21818, 2024. [26] Masato Ishii, Akio Hayakawa, Takashi Shibuya, and Yuki Mitsufuji. A simple but strong baseline for sounding video generation: Effective adaptation of audio and video diffusion models for joint generation. In 2025 International Joint Conference on Neural Networks (IJCNN) , pages 1–9. IEEE, 2025. 15 [27] Yang Jin, Zhicheng Sun, Ningyuan Li, Kun Xu, Hao Jiang, Nan Zhuang, Quzhe Huang, Yang Song, Yadong Mu, and Zhouchen Lin. Pyramidal flow matching for efficient video generative modeling. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.05954 ,2024. [28] Weijie Kong, Qi Tian, Zijian Zhang, Rox Min, Zuozhuo Dai, Jin Zhou, Jiangfeng Xiong, Xin Li, Bo Wu, Jianwei Zhang, et al. Hunyuanvideo: A systematic framework for large video generative models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.03603 ,2024. [29] Kai Liu, Wei Li, Lai Chen, Shengqiong Wu, Yanhao Zheng, Jiayi Ji, Fan Zhou, Rongxin Jiang, Jiebo Luo, Hao Fei, et al. Javisdit: Joint audio-video diffusion transformer with hierarchical spatio-temporal prior synchronization. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.23377 , 2025. [30] Chetwin Low, Weimin Wang, and Calder Katyal. Ovi: Twin backbone cross-modal fusion for audio-video generation. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2510.01284 , 2025. [31] Yue Ma, Yingqing He, Xiaodong Cun, Xintao Wang, Siran Chen, Xiu Li, and Qifeng Chen. Follow your pose: Pose-guided text-to-video generation using pose-free videos. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence ,volume 38, pages 4117–4125, 2024. [32] Muyao Niu, Xiaodong Cun, Xintao Wang, Yong Zhang, Ying Shan, and Yinqiang Zheng. Mofa-video: Controllable image animation via generative motion field adaptions in frozen image-to-video diffusion model. In European Conference on Computer Vision , pages 111–128. Springer, 2024. [33] OpenAI. Video generation models as world simulators. https://openai.com/index/ video-generation-models-as-world-simulators/ , 2024. [34] Alec Radford, Jeff Wu, Rewon Child, David Luan, Dario Amodei, and Ilya Sutskever. Robust speech recognition via large-scale weak supervision. arXiv preprint arXiv:2212.04356 , 2022. [35] Weiming Ren, Huan Yang, Ge Zhang, Cong Wei, Xinrun Du, Wenhao Huang, and Wenhu Chen. Consisti2v: Enhancing visual consistency for image-to-video generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.04324 , 2024. [36] Robin Rombach, Andreas Blattmann, Dominik Lorenz, Patrick Esser, and Bj ¨orn Ommer. High-resolution image synthesis with latent diffusion models. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition ,pages 10684–10695, 2022. [37] Ludan Ruan, Yiyang Ma, Huan Yang, Huiguo He, Bei Liu, Jianlong Fu, Nicholas Jing Yuan, Qin Jin, and Baining Guo. Mm-diffusion: Learning multi-modal diffusion models for joint audio and video generation. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition , pages 10219–10228, 2023. [38] Yang Song and Prafulla Dhariwal. Improved techniques for training consistency models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.14189 ,2023. [39] Jianlin Su, Yu Lu, Shengfeng Pan, Ahmed Murtadha, Bo Wen, and Yunfeng Liu. Roformer: enhanced transformer with rotary position embedding. arxiv. arXiv preprint arXiv:2104.09864 , 2021. [40] Hansi Teng, Hongyu Jia, Lei Sun, Lingzhi Li, Maolin Li, Mingqiu Tang, Shuai Han, Tianning Zhang, WQ Zhang, Weifeng Luo, et al. Magi-1: Autoregressive video generation at scale. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.13211 , 2025. [41] Andros Tjandra, Yi-Chiao Wu, Baishan Guo, John Hoffman, Brian Ellis, Apoorv Vyas, Bowen Shi, Sanyuan Chen, Matt Le, Nick Zacharov, Carleigh Wood, Ann Lee, and Wei-Ning Hsu. Meta audiobox aesthetics: Unified automatic quality assessment for speech, music, and sound. 2025. [42] Carl Vondrick and Antonio Torralba. Generating the future with adversarial transformers. In Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recognition , pages 1020–1028, 2017. [43] Team Wan, Ang Wang, Baole Ai, Bin Wen, Chaojie Mao, Chen-Wei Xie, Di Chen, Feiwu Yu, Haiming Zhao, Jianxiao Yang, et al. Wan: Open and advanced large-scale video generative models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.20314 , 2025. [44] Duomin Wang, Wei Zuo, Aojie Li, Ling-Hao Chen, Xinyao Liao, Deyu Zhou, Zixin Yin, Xili Dai, Daxin Jiang, and Gang Yu. Universe-1: Unified audio-video generation via stitching of experts. arXiv preprint arXiv:2509.06155 , 2025. [45] Jiuniu Wang, Hangjie Yuan, Dayou Chen, Yingya Zhang, Xiang Wang, and Shiwei Zhang. Modelscope text-to-video technical report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.06571 , 2023. 16 [46] Kai Wang, Shijian Deng, Jing Shi, Dimitrios Hatzinakos, and Yapeng Tian. Av-dit: Taming image diffusion transformers for efficient joint audio and video generation. In Proceedings of the 33rd ACM International Conference on Multimedia ,pages 10486–10495, 2025. [47] Mengchao Wang, Qiang Wang, Fan Jiang, Yaqi Fan, Yunpeng Zhang, Yonggang Qi, Kun Zhao, and Mu Xu. Fantasytalk-ing: Realistic talking portrait generation via coherent motion synthesis. In Proceedings of the 33rd ACM International Conference on Multimedia , pages 9891–9900, 2025. [48] Xinlong Wang, Xiaosong Zhang, Zhengxiong Luo, Quan Sun, Yufeng Cui, Jinsheng Wang, Fan Zhang, Yueze Wang, Zhen Li, Qiying Yu, et al. Emu3: Next-token prediction is all you need. arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.18869 , 2024. [49] Yi Wang, Yinan He, Yizhuo Li, Kunchang Li, Jiashuo Yu, Xin Ma, Xinhao Li, Guo Chen, Xinyuan Chen, Yaohui Wang, et al. Internvid: A large-scale video-text dataset for multimodal understanding and generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.06942 , 2023. [50] Yuqing Wang, Tianwei Xiong, Daquan Zhou, Zhijie Lin, Yang Zhao, Bingyi Kang, Jiashi Feng, and Xihui Liu. Loong: Generating minute-level long videos with autoregressive language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.02757 , 2024. [51] Yuanhui Wu, Yuan Huang, Yuan Xu, Yutong Li, Weiran Lin, Chen Zhang, Di Wang, Qingjian Kong, and Wei Xu. Large-scale contrastive language-audio pretraining with feature fusion and keyword-to-caption augmentation. In IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP) , 2023. [52] Zhongcong Xu, Jianfeng Zhang, Jun Hao Liew, Hanshu Yan, Jia-Wei Liu, Chenxu Zhang, Jiashi Feng, and Mike Zheng Shou. Magicanimate: Temporally consistent human image animation using diffusion model. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition , pages 1481–1490, 2024. [53] Bowen Xue, Zheng-Peng Duan, Qixin Yan, Wenjing Wang, Hao Liu, Chun-Le Guo, Chongyi Li, Chen Li, and Jing Lyu. Stand-in: A lightweight and plug-and-play identity control for video generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2508.07901 , 2025. [54] Shuai Yang, Wei Huang, Ruihang Chu, Yicheng Xiao, Yuyang Zhao, Xianbang Wang, Muyang Li, Enze Xie, Yingcong Chen, Yao Lu, et al. Longlive: Real-time interactive long video generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2509.22622 , 2025. [55] Zhuoyi Yang, Jiayan Teng, Wendi Zheng, Ming Ding, Shiyu Huang, Jiazheng Xu, Yuanming Yang, Wenyi Hong, Xiaohan Zhang, Guanyu Feng, et al. Cogvideox: Text-to-video diffusion models with an expert transformer. arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.06072 , 2024. [56] Tianwei Yin, Micha ¨el Gharbi, Taesung Park, Richard Zhang, Eli Shechtman, Fredo Durand, and Bill Freeman. Improved distribution matching distillation for fast image synthesis. Advances in neural information processing systems , 37:47455– 47487, 2024. [57] Tianwei Yin, Qiang Zhang, Richard Zhang, William T Freeman, Fredo Durand, Eli Shechtman, and Xun Huang. From slow bidirectional to fast autoregressive video diffusion models. In Proceedings of the Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Conference , pages 22963–22974, 2025. [58] Guozhen Zhang, Zixiang Zhou, Teng Hu, Ziqiao Peng, Youliang Zhang, Yi Chen, Yuan Zhou, Qinglin Lu, and Limin Wang. Uniavgen: Unified audio and video generation with asymmetric cross-modal interactions. arXiv preprint arXiv:2511.03334 , 2025. [59] Youliang Zhang, Zhaoyang Li, Duomin Wang, Jiahe Zhang, Deyu Zhou, Zixin Yin, Xili Dai, Gang Yu, and Xiu Li. Speakervid-5m: A large-scale high-quality dataset for audio-visual dyadic interactive human generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2507.09862 , 2025. [60] Kaiwen Zheng, Yuji Wang, Qianli Ma, Huayu Chen, Jintao Zhang, Yogesh Balaji, Jianfei Chen, Ming-Yu Liu, Jun Zhu, and Qinsheng Zhang. Large scale diffusion distillation via score-regularized continuous-time consistency. arXiv preprint arXiv:2510.08431 , 2025. [61] Yuan Zhou, Qiuyue Wang, Yuxuan Cai, and Huan Yang. Allegro: Open the black box of commercial-level video generation model. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.15458 , 2024. 17