Title: CULTURESCORE: Evaluating Cultural Faithfulness in Video Generation Models

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2606.07311v1

Published Time: Mon, 08 Jun 2026 01:11:01 GMT

Number of Pages: 36

Markdown Content:
# CULTURE SCORE : Evaluating Cultural Faithfulness in Video Generation Models 

## Anku Rani 1 Wei Dai 1 Shravan Nayak 2

## Pattie Maes 1 Mahdi M. Kalayeh 3 Paul Pu Liang 11 Massachusetts Institute of Technology 2 Mila – Quebec AI Institute 3Netflix 

## Correspondence: ankurani@mit.edu 

## Abstract 

As video generation models like Veo 3.1 and LTX-2 advance, their ability to accurately rep-resent diverse global cultures remains a criti-cal yet understudied frontier. Current metrics, such as VideoScore, only measure visual qual-ity but offer no mechanism for assessing cul-tural faithfulness. Consequently, a model that replaces a Namaste with a handshake receives the same score as one that generates the ges-ture correctly. We propose C ULTURE SCORE 

a compositional evaluation framework that de-composes cultural faithfulness into three gran-ular dimensions: Identity (who is represented), Context (culturally localized background), and Behavior (normative gestures and interactions). We operationalize this framework through an evaluation suite spanning 10 countries, yield-ing 6,180 generated videos across three state-of-the-art models. Our evaluation reveals that no current model achieves culturally faithful video generation: the best-performing model reaches only 56.8% overall C ULTURE SCORE 

with Behavior the most challenging dimension, which remains below 52% across all models. Furthermore, human preference rankings align directionally with C ULTURE SCORE but are inverted relative to VideoScore; the highest-scoring model on visual quality was ranked last by annotators, underscoring that cultural faith-fulness is an essential criterion for equitable video generation. 

## 1 Introduction 

Video Generation models like Veo3 (Google Deep-Mind), Sora (OpenAI, 2024), and Wan2.2 (Wan et al., 2025) are capable of simulating the physical world with high faithfulness. They are already used to gen-erate advertisements, social media content, and short films (Hume et al., 2025). As adoption grows glob-ally, a fundamental question arises about how faithfully these models represent the world’s cultural diversity. A system trained predominantly on Western media will generate a handshake when prompted for a greeting, not a Namaste or a Salam. These systematic biases may marginalize the cultural norms of billions of people as video generation tools spread worldwide. Ensuring that these models can accurately depict diverse cultural re-alities is essential for equitable access to generative AI, with implications for education, media, policy commu-nication, and social inclusion. Research on cultural evaluation in generative AI has so far focused almost entirely on text-to-image (T2I) models. Benchmarks like CulturalFrames (Nayak et al., 2025), CuRE (Rege et al., 2025), CUBE (Kannen et al., 2024), and CultDiff (Bayramli et al., 2025) have col-lectively revealed that T2I models frequently miss cul-tural cues and default to stereotypical depictions. How-ever, images are static, while culture is often expressed through actions in sequence, requiring evaluation frame-works that reason over motion sequences rather than single frames. A Namaste requires folding the hands and bowing in a specific order; a Salam carries its own gesture and rhythm. Images cannot capture these distinc-tions, and neither can evaluation frameworks designed for them. On the video side, the landscape is sparse. VideoScore (He et al., 2024) and UnifiedReward (Wang et al., 2025) measure temporal consistency, visual qual-ity, and factual grounding. While useful for assessing general video quality, these metrics can be actively mis-leading when used for cultural faithfulness. For exam-ple, VideoScore assigns equal scores for videos that replace a Namaste with a handshake. To address these limitations, we propose a compo-sitional approach to evaluating cultural faithfulness in generated videos. Prior work in video understanding has shown that complex visual scenes can be more reliably analyzed when decomposed into semantically meaning-ful components like actions, scenes, and objects (Ray et al., 2018). Inspired by compositionality, we pro-pose an evaluation framework called C ULTURE SCORE 

that decomposes a textual prompt into three culturally grounded facets: identity (who is represented and how), behavior (culturally normative gestures, prosody, ex-pressivity), and context (culturally situated settings and social conventions). Unlike holistic scores, this fine-grained metric exposes subtle cultural mismatches, such as an incorrect greeting gesture performed in the right setting, and identifies precisely which component failed. The result is not just a faithfulness score but an inter-pretable diagnostic that reveals where and how a model diverges from authentic cultural representation. We operationalize this framework by building an eval-uation dataset grounded in CulturalFrames (Nayak et al., 2025), a benchmark of 981 culturally validated settings 

> arXiv:2606.07311v1 [cs.CV] 5 Jun 2026

Figure 1: C ULTURE SCORE is a new compositional evaluation framework that decomposes cultural faithfulness into three dimensions: Identity (who is represented), Context (culturally localized background), and Behavior (normative gestures and expressivity). We operationalize this framework through an evaluation suite of 2,943 culturally validated prompts spanning 10 countries and 5 socio-cultural domains, yielding 6,180 generated videos and 9,289 reasoning and QA pairs across three state-of-the-art models: Veo 3.1 Fast (Google DeepMind), LTX-2 (HaCohen et al., 2024), and Wan 2.2 (Wan et al., 2025). spanning 10 countries and 5 socio-cultural domains. Each setting is decomposed into 9289 question-answer pairs across identity, behavior, and context components (see Figure 1). These QA-pairs are used to evaluate the cultural faithfulness of state-of-the-art video gen-eration models, producing component-level accuracy scores that aggregate into an overall C ULTURE SCORE .Our evaluation reveals a striking finding: models that score highest on perceptual metrics systematically score lowest on cultural faithfulness, and vice versa — a di-vergence that is statistically validated by native human evaluators. 

Contributions. To summarize, this work makes the following contributions to the study of cultural faithful-ness in video generation models. 1. We propose CULTURE SCORE , a compositional eval-uation framework that decomposes cultural faithful-ness into Identity, Behavior, and Context dimensions, enabling fine-grained diagnosis of when models di-verge from authentic cultural representation. 2. We construct and publicly release a culturally grounded evaluation suite of 2,943 prompts span-ning 10 countries and 5 socio-cultural domains. It yields 6,180 videos and 9,289 reasoning and QA pairs, providing a reusable benchmark for future work on cultural faithfulness in video generation. 3. We present a comprehensive analysis of three state-of-the-art video generation models across 10 coun-tries, identifying systematic cultural failure modes, including a striking inverse correlation between current video generation metrics and cultural faithfulness , validated by native human evaluators. 

## 2 Related Work 

Video generation models. Early video generation models, such as Make-A-Video (Singer et al., 2023), built on the success of text-to-image diffusion mod-els by extending spatial U-Net architectures with tem-poral attention modules. A significant architectural shift occurred in 2024 with the adoption of Diffusion Transformer (DiT) backbones (Peebles and Xie, 2023; Wang et al., 2024; Lee et al., 2024). Further, OpenAI’s Sora (OpenAI, 2024) demonstrated that scaling DiT-based video models yields strong temporal consistency and semantic coherence. This catalyzed a wave of open-source DiT-based video generation models, including CogVideoX (Yang et al., 2025b), HunyuanVideo (Kong et al., 2025), LTX-Video (HaCohen et al., 2024), and Wan (Wan et al., 2025) that have made substantial progress on text-video alignment, complex motion gen-eration, real-time video generation, and instruction fol-lowing. Despite these advances, video generation mod-els are primarily evaluated on physical realism, temporal consistency, and general prompt adherence (He et al., 2024; Wang et al., 2025). Their capacity to faithfully represent different cultures and their nuances remains entirely unstudied. 

Cultural representation in generative AI. Research into cultural representation in AI systems across a range of modalities, from language models (Chiu et al., 2025) to multimodal systems (Nayak et al., 2024; Bhatia et al., 2024), has shown that frontier models struggle with non-Western cultural knowledge. Later, as text-to-image (T2I) generation matured, researchers extended this inquiry to visual content creation. Benchmarks like CUBE (Kannen et al., 2024), CuRE (Rege et al., 2025), CulturalFrames (Nayak et al., 2025), and Cult-Diff (Bayramli et al., 2025) revealed that T2I models frequently miss cultural cues and default to stereotyp-ical depictions. Image transcreation (Khanuja et al., 2024) further highlighted the difficulty of the problem for image editing, where the goal was to adapt cultural content across regions. On the evaluation side, CULTI-Vate ’s (Malakouti et al., 2026) AHEaD metric measures cultural faithfulness across alignment, hallucination, ex-aggeration, and diversity dimensions. However, cul-tural expression in video dynamically unfolds over time through gestures and interactions that a single frame cannot capture. To the best of our knowledge, no exist-ing benchmark or metric addresses cultural faithfulness in video generation models. 

Video generation evaluation metrics. Early metrics like FVD (Unterthiner et al., 2019) measured statistical similarity between generated and real video distribu-tions, while more comprehensive benchmarks such as VBench (Huang et al., 2024a) and VBench++ (Huang et al., 2024b) improved coverage by assessing percep-tual dimensions like motion smoothness and temporal consistency. Yet none measured reliably whether gen-erated content was semantically faithful to the prompt. MLLMs, with their ability to reason over both visual content and natural language, offer a more promising path, as shown by their success in text-to-image evalua-tion (Ku et al., 2024). Building on this, VideoScore (He et al., 2024) and UnifiedReward (Wang et al., 2025) trained VLMs on human preference data to produce scores across visual quality and semantic faithfulness. VFEval (Song et al., 2025) further confirmed that VLMs provide reliable feedback for evaluating video genera-tion. Yet, none of these works evaluate for cultural faithfulness. In this work, we leverage VLMs to build a compositional, QA-based evaluation framework for evaluating cultural faithfulness, exposing failure modes that current metrics miss. 

## 3 CULTURE SCORE : A Decomposed Evaluation Framework 

Evaluating cultural faithfulness in Video Generation models presents a unique technical challenge: while standard metrics like VideoScore (He et al., 2024) or Unified Reward (Wang et al., 2025) assess visual qual-ity, temporal consistency, dynamic degree, etc., they fail to capture the granular accuracy of cultural norms. Formally, given a cultural prompt P representing a spe-cific socio-cultural frame, the goal is to evaluate a video 

V such that the identity, behavior, and context are all internally consistent with the target culture. 1. Identity refers to who is represented and how they are depicted in the generated video. This dimension focuses on the characters’ physical appearance, at-tire, and demographic markers. For example, the visual representation of Japanese colleagues or Chi-nese students should reflect distinct cultural norms in professional or academic dress and physical char-acteristics. 2. Behavior encompasses what the people are doing, specifically focusing on culturally normative ges-tures, prosody, and expressivity. Unlike static im-ages, video must capture the specific ”gesture and rhythm” of actions. A primary example is the cul-tural variation in greetings: while a model might default to a Western handshake, a culturally faithful generation would correctly depict a Namaste in In-dia or a Salam, which require specific sequences of motion and posture. 3. Context refers to the culturally localized back-ground, including the physical setting, environmental details, and underlying social conventions. This di-mension covers both the atmospheric decor, such as Islamic calligraphy or Persian rugs, and social arrangements, such as a family seated around a das-tarkhwan (floor spread) rather than a Western-style dining table. Figure 1 illustrates these dimensions through a comparison of generated content across different cultural prompts. The technical challenges of this problem are three-fold: (1) Granularity Gap : Cultural errors are often subtle and hidden within high-quality visual outputs, making holistic scores unreliable; (2) Label Dependency : Mod-els often over-rely on explicit geographic tokens (e.g., ”India”) rather than understanding the underlying cul-tural concepts; and (3) Temporal Complexity : Culturally specific motions (e.g., behavior) can be difficult to gen-erate. 

3.1 Cultural Dimensions and Data Curation 

Our evaluation framework CULTURE SCORE is grounded in CulturalFrames (Nayak et al., 2025), a benchmark of 981 culturally validated prompts spanning 10 countries and 5 socio-cultural domains, originally developed for evaluating cultural representation in text-to-image models. We are the first to adapt these prompts for video generation evaluation, decomposing each into our three culturally grounded dimensions of Identity, Behavior, and Context to construct a balanced evaluation set across 10 geographic regions and 5 socio-cultural categories (see Appendix A.1 for more details). Prompts were adapted using the Gemini 3 Flash model (Google, 2026) to ensure each prompt explicitly encodes geographic and cultural identifiers. Where a country name was absent from the original prompt, geographical adjectives were appended. For example, the prompt “Couple meeting at a German sports club gathering” is decomposed as: German Couple (Identity), German meeting (Behavior), and 

German sports club gathering (Context). Full prompt details are provided in Appendix section C. We also provide details on how countries are similar to one another in the Appendix section A.2. I npu t Dat a 

> Decomposed Cultur al
> Keyw or d

Identity (I) 

Behavior (B) 

Context (C) 

Base 

Pr om pt 

> "Chinese mother
> organizing family
> festival outing"
> Cultur al Exper t
> Ver ified

Ex t en ded Pr om pt 

> Cultur al Exper t Ver ified +
> Decomposed Guidance w ith I, B, C
> "Chinese mother organizing family festival
> outing. [Behavior]: systematically arranging
> items, coordinating people by gesturing, ...
> [Identity]: a woman of Chinese heritage, dressed
> in practical attire, ... [Context]: outdoor
> celebration with traditional Chinese decorations
> such as red lanterns, ..."

Vi deo Gen er at i on M odel s 

Veo 3.1 

Wan 2.2 

LTX-2 

Cu l t u r al QA Gen er at i on s 

I dent i t y (I ) 

> Is the m other w ear ing clothing that featur es a
> 'M andar in collar 'or 'Pankou'?

Cont ex t (C) 

> Is the gr ound com posed of an expansive, flat
> expanse of light gr ay gr anite paving stones?

Beh av i or (B) 

> W hen handling the 'Hongbao', does one use
> tw o hands w ith a light-finger ed gr ip?

Vi deo Ver i f i er      

> Qw en3-VL-235B
> (1) Identify v i su al ev i den ce
> (2) Assess cu l t u r al accu r acy vs. em bedded
> descr iptions
> (3) Evaluate t em por al an d physi cal coh er en ce
> (4) Check for Wester n-centr ic defaults or st er eot ypes

Bi n ar y Eval u at i on 

Cu l t u r eScor e 

Cal cu l at i on   

> Standar d Accur acy
> Identity Behavior Context
> Over al l Cu l t u r eScor e
> Aver age

Qu est i on Ver i f i er 

> Gem ini-3.1-Flash

Figure 2: The C ULTURE SCORE evaluation framework. Base prompts are decomposed into Identity, Behavior, and Context dimensions and expanded with elaborated meaning. Videos generated by each model are evaluated via question-answer pairs, which are verified for accuracy by a VLM before scoring. Component-level accuracy scores across the three dimensions are averaged to produce an overall C ULTURE SCORE .

3.2 Evaluation Framework 

Given these sourced cultural prompts, our approach con-sists of four main steps: (i) Counterfactual prompt augmentation , where systematic variations of cultural prompts are generated to probe model behavior; (ii) 

video generation , where augmented prompts are used to generate videos, (iii) IBC decomposition , where each identity, behavior, and context dimension are eval-uated; and (iv) VLM-based scoring , where Vision-Language Models (VLMs) perform fine-grained, aspect-based question answering to quantify faithfulness in each dimension. Please refer to Figure 2. 

Counterfactual prompt augmentation. To systemat-ically probe how models respond to varying levels of cul-tural explicitness and to identify whether failures stem from missing explicit cues or absent implicit knowl-edge, we design three prompt variations for each cultural scenario. Base Prompt includes the original prompt adapted from a previous work on culture (Nayak et al., 2025) that is verified by native people from that country. 

Extended Prompt expands the prompt into an explicit descriptive scene, mapping nuances into Identity , Be-havior , and Context by elaborating its meaning from the Oxford dictionary. The extended prompt is used in our evaluation framework. Geographical Constraint Re-moved Prompt removes specific country names (e.g., changing “Muslim Indian family” to “Muslim family”) to test whether models have internalized cultural con-cepts as open-world knowledge or rely on geographic triggers to activate cultural associations. An illustrative example of this strategy for a “Halal Feast” scenario is provided in Figure 3. A sample of these prompts was evaluated by the native residents of the countries (Refer section 4.2). 

Video generation models. To ensure a comprehen-sive evaluation of cultural faithfulness, we select three state-of-the-art video generation models: Wan2.2 , LTX-2, and Veo 3.1 Fast . These models represent the current frontier in high-fidelity temporal synthesis and instruc-tion following. For LTX-2 and Wan 2.2, we generate 5-second videos across three prompt variations: a base prompt, an extended prompt for structural guidance, and a version where the specific geographical country name is removed to test implicit cultural knowledge. For Veo 3.1 Fast, we test on a subset of 10% of the data because of the API costs and generate 4-second videos. More details on the model specifications are present in the Appendix section D. 

IBC decomposition. To evaluate the generated videos, we use gemini-3-flash-preview 

(Google, 2026) to automatically generate 9,289 culturally-grounded questions and their corresponding ground-truth answers. The model is provided with human-validated prompts from Cultural Frames. We prompt the model to generate diverse reasoning pairs based on two key principles. First, we embed visual descriptions , where precise physical or spatial details are embedded directly into the question so the evaluator does not rely on implicit cultural knowledge. For example, instead of asking if a person is wearing a traditional Kimono, the model asks: Is the person wearing a traditional Kimono, characterized by Figure 3: The Base Prompt (left) includes an explicit geographic identifier ( “Muslim Indian family enjoying a halal feast at home” ), producing a culturally grounded scene. The Extended Prompt (center) augments the scene with decomposed Identity, Behavior, and Context descriptions, yielding richer cultural detail, such as Islamic d ´ecor, white kurta attire, etc. The Geographical Constraint Removed Prompt (right) strips the country identifier, retaining only “Muslim family enjoying a halal feast at home” , to probe whether models have internalized cultural concepts independently of geographic triggers. left-over-right wrapped lapels and wide, square-cut sleeves?” Second, we enforce temporal grounding 

which explicitly probes the progression of movement across frames, such as: Does the pouring behavior begin with the vessel held low, smoothly rise to a higher elevation, and return low without breaking the stream?” This approach ensures that the evaluation is rooted in specific, verifiable cultural markers rather than generic visual aesthetics. Details are in Appendix C.4. We also add a question verification stage that filters out irrelevant questions, leading to 8811 (94.92%) valid questions, see Appendix C.5 for details. A sample of these verified questions was then annotated by native residents of the country to validate the relevance of the questions. Refer to section 4.2 for more details. 

VLM-based scoring. To evaluate the generated videos against our questions, we use Qwen3-VL235B-A22B-Instruct (Yang et al., 2025a), a state-of-the-art vision-language model designed for complex visual un-derstanding and temporal reasoning. Given answers gen-erated by the model, C ULTURE SCORE averages model performance across the three decomposed dimensions of identity, behavior, and context. Prompt details present in Appendix section C.6. Native residents of the country then annotated a sample of the dataset for validating answer accuracy. Refer to section 4.2 for more details. 

## 4 Experiments 

Our evaluation is guided by the following four research questions: 

RQ1: To what extent do current state-of-the-art video generation models faithfully represent cultural Identity, Behavior, and Context, and does performance on ex-isting perceptual quality metrics, such as VideoScore, align with or diverge from C ULTURE SCORE ?

RQ2: Does providing decomposed, culturally ex-plicit prompt guidance improve C ULTURE SCORE , and which dimensions benefit most? 

Figure 4: Average C ULTURE SCORE (%) across Iden-tity, Behavior, and Context dimensions for three video generation models under extended prompts. Context across all the models performs better than behavior and identity. Wan 2.2 outperforms the other two for Identity and Context. 

RQ3: Do models rely on explicit geographic iden-tifiers to activate cultural knowledge, or have they in-ternalized cultural concepts as geography-independent representations? 

RQ4: How do C ULTURE SCORE and VideoScore each align with the cultural preferences of native human evaluators, and which automated metric better reflects human judgment of cultural faithfulness? 

4.1 Results 

For RQ1 , we present results across two complementary views: (i) how C ULTURE SCORE varies across the Iden-tity, Behavior, and Context dimensions under our eval-uation framework (Figure 4), and (ii) how VideoScore and C ULTURE SCORE diverge when compared across models and countries (Figure 5). 

Dimension-level findings. Context consistently yields the highest accuracy across all models, Wan 2.2 (Wan et al., 2025) achieves 69.3%, LTX-2 (HaCohen et al., 2024) achieves 62.1%, and Veo 3.1 Fast (Google DeepMind) 59.0%. Identity is the leading second dimension for Wan 2.2 (51.3%) and LTX-2 (45.0%), while Veo scores highest on Behavior (51.9%) with Identity as its weakest dimension (41.9%). Behavior Brazil            

> Canada
> Chile
> China
> Germany
> India
> Iran
> Japan
> Poland
> S. Africa
> 2.6 2.8 33.2 3.4 3.6
> Brazil
> Canada
> Chile
> China
> Germany
> India
> Iran
> Japan
> Poland
> S. Africa
> 40 50 60 70
> LTX-2 Wan 2.2 Veo 3.1
> VideoScore CultureScore

Figure 5: The inverse relationship between the average of all dimensions of VideoScore, and C ULTURE SCORE .Across all regions, the model perceived as most “cine-matic” (LTX-2) consistently performs worst in cultural faithfulness, while the most accurate model (Wan 2.2) scores lowest on general quality metrics. remains weak for Wan 2.2 (49.8%) and LTX-2 (47.0%), indicating that culturally specific motion sequences rep-resent a persistent failure mode that prompt enrichment alone cannot resolve. Refer to Figure 4 for more details. 

Inverse relationship between VideoScore vs. C UL -

> TURE

SCORE . As shown in Figure 5, a striking and consistent pattern emerges across all three models. LTX-2 (HaCohen et al., 2024) secures the highest VideoScore (avg. 3.34) yet ranks second lowest in C ULTURE SCORE 

accuracy (avg. 51.4%), with Veo 3.1 Fast scoring lowest (avg. 50.9%). Wan 2.2 (Wan et al., 2025) achieves the highest cultural accuracy on average (avg. 56.8%) while receiving the lowest VideoScore ratings (avg. 2.72), though Veo 3.1 Fast (Google DeepMind) outperforms both models on C ULTURE SCORE in Iran (51.6%) and Poland (52.0%). This inverse relationship holds across 8 of 10 countries where Wan 2.2 leads, and for two countries Veo 3.1 Fast leads, suggesting that optimiz-ing for perceptual quality does not translate to cultural faithfulness. 

Effect of extended prompt. For RQ2 , we compare CULTURE SCORE under base prompts against extended prompts, which augment each scene with explicit Iden-tity, Behavior, and Context descriptions derived from Oxford Dictionary definitions. This tests whether cul-tural failures stem from insufficient prompt specificity or from deeper gaps in model knowledge. Extended prompts yield consistent gains across all three models (Veo 3.1 Fast (Google DeepMind), LTX-2 (HaCohen et al., 2024), and Wan2.2 (Wan et al., 2025)) and all three dimensions (Behavior, Identity, and Con-text), but the magnitude varies substantially by dimen-sion. For Identity, LTX-2 benefits most (+18.2%, from 26.8% to 45.0%), closely followed by Wan 2.2 (+17.9%, from 33.4% to 51.3%) and Veo 3.1 Fast (+11.9%, from 30.0% to 41.9%). The smaller gain for Veo 3.1 Fast sug-gests it already captures some object-level identity cues from base prompts. Refer to Figure 6 and Appendix section D Table 9 and 10. The Context dimension shows the largest absolute gains across all models. 

LTX-2 improves by +25.5% (36.6% to 62.1%), Wan 2.2 by +21.5% (47.8% to 69.3%), and Veo 3.1 Fast by +18.0% (41.0% to 59.0%), likely because scene-level descriptions (settings, decorations, spatial layouts) map more directly onto learnable visual features. 

Behavior is the most resistant dimension to prompt enrichment. Despite receiving the same structured guidance, behavior gains are comparable across all mod-els: Wan 2.2 (+15.8%), Veo 3.1 Fast (+16.2%), and LTX-2 (+16.7%). Even under extended prompting, no model exceeds 52% on Behavior , compared to 69.3% on Context for the best-performing model (Wan 2.2), indicating that temporally coherent motion sequences remain a persistent failure mode that prompt enrichment alone cannot resolve. 

Explicit vs. implicit cultural knowledge. For RQ3 ,we study whether models have internalized cultural con-cepts as open world knowledge or rely on geographic tokens as triggers. To answer this, we remove coun-try names from base prompts while retaining cultural identifiers (e.g., “Indian women greeting people with Namaste.” to “Women greeting people with Namaste”). We filter for cases where the model correctly processed the base prompt (see Appendix C.7 for processing de-tails), yielding 48.4% of prompts, and evaluate C UL -

> TURE

SCORE across all three dimensions. Removing ge-ographic identifiers causes a consistent and substantial drop. For Veo 3.1 Fast, compared to extended prompts, removing geographic anchors causes accuracy to fall by 27.6pp on Context (59.0% → 31.4%), 23.0pp on Behavior (51.9% → 28.9%), and 16.5pp on Identity (41.9% → 25.4%). For LTX-2, compared to extended prompts, removing geographic anchors causes accu-racy to fall by 33.5pp on Context (62.1% → 28.6%), 25.8pp on Identity (45.0% → 19.2%), and 20.3pp on Behavior (47.0% → 26.7%). This suggests that models rely heavily on explicit geographic tokens as cultural triggers rather than having internalized the un-derlying cultural concepts, and that cultural understand-ing in current video generation models remains largely surface-level. The effect is most severe for Chinese and Iranian prompts, where LTX-2 shows the largest drops across all three dimensions (China: −10 .6 pp avg, Iran: −9.9 pp avg) when geographic anchors are removed, suggest-ing that low resource or visually distinctive cultures in training data are disproportionately affected. Notably, Canada and Chile show negligible drops ( −0.2 pp and 

−0.8 pp, respectively), possibly due to greater overlap with Western training data defaults. Taken together, these two achievements reveal a consistent picture: cul-tural faithfulness in current video generation models is both prompt-sensitive and geographically dependent. Structured guidance improves context and identity con-siderably, but behavior remains stubbornly below the ceiling. We report the numbers in Figure 7. Figure 6: Average C ULTURE SCORE (%) for base and extended prompt across the models. Extended prompts consistently outperform the base prompt across all dimensions implies extended prompting yields better output. 

Figure 7: Average C ULTURE SCORE of LTX-2 and Veo 3.1 Fast across IBC dimensions with all three prompt variants. Across all dimensions, the extended prompt performs the best, with the Context dimension and the LTX-2 model benefiting the most. No country prompt exhibits the worst performance, with the greatest reduc-tion in the Context dimension and with the Veo 3.1 Fast model. 

4.2 Human Evaluation 

To validate whether the divergence between VideoScore and CultureScore reflects genuine human perception, we conducted a systematic human evaluation study on Pro-lific with N=45 native residents (5 per country) spanning 9 countries (all except Iran, given the current geopoliti-cal situation). Each participant evaluated 9 video triplets, yielding 135 rank observations per model. Participants were required to be verified current residents who also hold nationality of the evaluated country on Prolific, en-suring cultural authenticity of judgments. Participants spanned diverse professional backgrounds including en-trepreneurs, musicians, homemakers, policymakers, and data analysts, to avoid skew toward technical AI exper-tise. For each triplet, participants completed a three-tier as-sessment: (i) Question relevance: Judging whether the CULTURE SCORE -generated evaluation question was a meaningful probe for the given cultural context, (ii) Per-ceptual accuracy: Answering the Identity, Behavior, or Context question based strictly on visual evidence in the videos, and (iii) Preference ranking: Ranking videos generated from all three models from 1st to 3rd based on overall cultural faithfulness. Full annotation details are in Appendix B. 

Inter-annotator agreement. Given the categorical nature of Question Relevance, we report Gwet’s AC1 (Gwet, 2008) for question relevance, as it pro-vides a more reliable agreement estimate under skewed marginal distributions. For Perceptual Accuracy, where annotators selected all videos for which a condition held true, we report average pairwise Jaccard similarity (Jaccard, 1912) to account for the multi-label nature of responses. For preference ranking, we report Spear-man’s ρ (Spearman, 1961) as a descriptive measure of ordering agreement between human preferences and evaluation metrics. 

Question relevance. Across all nine countries, con-text and identity questions were judged highly relevant on average (84.2% and 78.3%, respectively), while be-havior questions received notably lower ratings (69.0%). Behavior relevance showed the greatest cross-cultural variability: German raters rated behavior questions most relevant (93.3%), while Japanese raters gave the lowest rating (44.4%). Indian raters showed a strong prefer-ence for context and identity (94.4% each) over behav-ior (66.7%), a pattern echoed in Japan (94.4% context, 72.2% identity vs. 44.4% behavior). Inter-rater agree-ment was moderate on average (AC1 ≈ 0.50 ). Ques-tions marked irrelevant by a majority of raters were excluded from further analysis. 

Perceptual accuracy. Identity questions yielded the highest answer accuracy across all nine countries (avg. 63.0%), while behavior and context questions were com-parably harder (53.7% and 51.2%, respectively), consis-tent with behavior’s role as the weakest dimension in our automated evaluation. Identity accuracy was espe-cially high for German and Indian raters (88.9% each), whereas Canadian and Japanese raters found identity the most difficult (33.3% and 44.4%). Behavior ac-curacy showed the greatest cross-cultural variability, ranging from 33.3% (Brazil, South Africa) to 77.8% Figure 8: Correlation between C ULTURE SCORE and native human preference rankings, across all nine countries. VideoScore (left) is inversely correlated with human preference; the model receiving the highest video score (LTX-2, red) is consistently ranked lowest by human evaluators. C ULTURE SCORE (right) is more directionally aligned with preference, with Wan 2.2 (blue) ranking highest on both cultural accuracy and human preference. Each point represents one model aggregated across all countries; error bars denote ±1 standard error. (Germany). Context accuracy diverged notably across cohorts: Indian and Polish raters scored highest (66.7% each), whereas Brazilian and Chinese raters scored the lowest (33.3% and 44.4%). Since annotators selected a set of videos per question, we report inter-rater agree-ment via average pairwise Jaccard similarity; agree-ment was moderate overall ( J = 0 .63 ), ranging from 

J = 0 .47 (South Africa) to J = 0 .78 (India). 

Preference ranking and metric correlation. For each prompt, annotators watched three AI-generated videos side-by-side and assigned a rank to each model (1 = most preferred, 3 = least preferred). We aggre-gate preferences by averaging per-model ranks across all raters and prompts within each country, then pooling across all nine countries ( n = 135 rank observations per model). Human preference followed a clear or-dering: VEO 3.1 Fast was most preferred (avg. rank 

1.66 ± 0.07 ), followed by Wan 2.2 ( 1.94 ± 0.06 ), and LTX-2 was ranked lowest ( 2.39 ± 0.07 ). To assess whether automated metrics align with this ordering, we compare each model’s aggregate C UL -

> TURE

SCORE and VideoScore against its average human preference rank. C ULTURE SCORE here is computed as the fraction of culturally grounded evaluation questions for which the model’s generated answer matches the majority human ground truth; VideoScore is the average of five perceptual dimensions (He et al., 2024). 

VideoScore does not reflect human preference: LTX-2 received the highest VideoScore ( 3.36 ) yet was ranked last by annotators, while Veo 3.1 Fast and Wan 2.2 scored substantially lower ( 2.78 and 2.72 , respectively) but were preferred by native human annotators ( ρ =

−0.50 ). This inversion confirms that perceptual quality metrics can actively mislead model selection. CUL -

> TURE

SCORE , by contrast, rewards WAN 2.2 most highly on the human-evaluation subset ( 0.656 , ground truth determined by majority annotator vote across 

n = 27 prompts), consistent with its second-place hu-man preference ranking. Together, these results indi-cate that general-purpose video quality metrics are not merely insufficient for measuring cultural faithfulness, but can actively mislead model selection when cultural accuracy is the priority. 

## 5 Conclusion 

We presented C ULTURE SCORE , a compositional frame-work that decomposes cultural faithfulness in video generation into Identity, Behavior, and Context dimen-sions. Across 2,943 prompts spanning 10 countries and 5 socio-cultural domains, existing quality metrics such as VideoScore actively mislead cultural evaluation: the model ranked highest on visual quality (LTX-2) ranked lowest on cultural accuracy, validated by native human evaluators. Decomposed cultural guidance yields mean-ingful gains, with Context most responsive to prompt en-richment and Behavior the most persistent failure mode. Identity-level questions emerge as the strongest predic-tor of human cultural preference, suggesting that who is represented and how is the dimension audiences notice first. We hope C ULTURE SCORE provides a reusable foundation for auditing cultural representation in gener-ative AI. 6 Limitations 

Our evaluation has three primary limitations. 

Asymmetric model coverage. Due to the high op-erational costs of the Veo 3.1 Fast API, we evaluate a stratified sample of 294 videos rather than the full 2,943-prompt suite used for Wan 2.2 and LTX-2. While the sample is designed to maintain cross-cultural and cross-category coverage, direct comparisons between Veo 3.1 and the other two models should be interpreted with this asymmetry in mind. 

Geographic scope of human evaluation. Our human evaluation is limited to native annotators from all the countries except Iran given the current geopolitical situ-ation. We aim to include it in the future. 

VLM-as-judge biases. CULTURE SCORE relies on Qwen3-VL to evaluate generated videos against cul-turally grounded questions. Although we include a question verification stage to reduce hallucinated or inaccurate evaluation criteria, the scoring model may itself carry cultural biases that systematically favor or penalize certain representations. We recommend treat-ing C ULTURE SCORE as a complementary metric to be used alongside human evaluation, rather than as a stan-dalone ground truth. 

## 7 Ethics Statement 

This work involves human evaluation of culturally sensi-tive video content. Annotators were recruited from Pro-lific as native members of the cultures being evaluated and participated voluntarily. No personally identifiable information was collected during the annotation process. The cultural prompts used in this study are grounded in the Cultural Atlas (Cultural Atlas, 2016), a publicly available resource developed collaboratively with com-munity members. We acknowledge that cultural repre-sentation is inherently contested and that no benchmark can fully capture the diversity within any national or re-gional group. C ULTURE SCORE reflects cultural norms as documented in reference materials and validated by native evaluators; it should not be interpreted as a defini-tive or exhaustive account of any culture. We also ac-knowledge that the VLMs used in our automated evalu-ation pipeline, including Qwen3-VL and Gemini Flash, may themselves carry cultural biases that influence scor-ing. We further acknowledge that our operationalization of the Identity dimension, which is grounded in physi-cal appearance, attire, and demographic markers, risks reinforcing stereotypes. Especially, the Identity dimen-sion is a deeply complex concept extending well beyond visual surface features, encompassing language, lived experience, class, and history that a generated video cannot fully capture. Our choice to evaluate Identity through visually legible markers is a pragmatic con-straint of the video evaluation setting, not a theoretical claim about what identity means. We recommend that CULTURE SCORE be used alongside, rather than as a replacement for, human judgment, particularly when evaluation findings are used to make claims about spe-cific communities. The dataset and evaluation suite will be released publicly to enable replication and extension by the broader research community. 

## 8 LLM Usage Disclosure 

We used LLMs for minor writing assistance, including grammar correction and language polishing. The core research ideas, methodology, experimental design, im-plementation, analysis, and conclusions were developed and carried out by the authors. No LLM was used to generate research ideas, experimental results, figures, or evaluations. 

## References 

Zahra Bayramli, Ayhan Suleymanzade, Na Min An, Huzama Ahmad, Eunsu Kim, Junyeong Park, James Thorne, and Alice Oh. 2025. Diffusion models through a global lens: Are they culturally inclusive? 

Preprint , arXiv:2502.08914. Mehar Bhatia, Sahithya Ravi, Aditya Chinchure, Eu-nJeong Hwang, and Vered Shwartz. 2024. From local concepts to universals: Evaluating the multi-cultural understanding of vision-language models. In Proceedings of the 2024 Conference on Empir-ical Methods in Natural Language Processing , pages 6763–6782, Miami, Florida, USA. Association for Computational Linguistics. Yu Ying Chiu, Liwei Jiang, Bill Yuchen Lin, Chan Young Park, Shuyue Stella Li, Sahithya Ravi, Mehar Bhatia, Maria Antoniak, Yulia Tsvetkov, Vered Shwartz, and Yejin Choi. 2025. Cultural-bench: A robust, diverse, and challenging cultural benchmark by human-ai culturalteaming. Preprint ,arXiv:2410.02677. Cultural Atlas. 2016. About the cultural atlas. Ac-cessed: 2026-03-31. Google. 2026. Gemini 3 flash preview. 

https://ai.google.dev/gemini-api/ docs/models/gemini-3-flash-preview .Large language model; accessed March 31, 2026. Google DeepMind. Veo: a text-to-video generation system. Technical report, Google DeepMind. Kilem Li Gwet. 2008. Computing inter-rater reliability and its variance in the presence of high agreement. 

British Journal of Mathematical and Statistical Psy-chology , 61(1):29–48. Yoav HaCohen, Nisan Chiprut, Benny Brazowski, Daniel Shalem, Dudu Moshe, Eitan Richardson, Eran Levin, Guy Shiran, Nir Zabari, Ori Gordon, Poriya Panet, Sapir Weissbuch, Victor Kulikov, Yaki Bit-terman, Zeev Melumian, and Ofir Bibi. 2024. Ltx-video: Realtime video latent diffusion. Preprint ,arXiv:2501.00103. Xuan He, Dongfu Jiang, Ge Zhang, Max Ku, Achint Soni, Sherman Siu, Haonan Chen, Abhranil Chan-dra, Ziyan Jiang, Aaran Arulraj, and 1 others. 2024. Videoscore: Building automatic metrics to simulate fine-grained human feedback for video generation. In Proceedings of the 2024 Conference on Empiri-cal Methods in Natural Language Processing , pages 2105–2123. Ziqi Huang, Yinan He, Jiashuo Yu, Fan Zhang, Chenyang Si, Yuming Jiang, Yuanhan Zhang, Tianx-ing Wu, Qingyang Jin, Nattapol Chanpaisit, and 1 others. 2024a. Vbench: Comprehensive benchmark suite for video generative models. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition , pages 21807–21818. Ziqi Huang, Fan Zhang, Xiaojie Xu, Yinan He, Jiashuo Yu, Ziyue Dong, Qianli Ma, Nattapol Chanpaisit, Chenyang Si, Yuming Jiang, Yaohui Wang, Xinyuan Chen, Ying-Cong Chen, Limin Wang, Dahua Lin, Yu Qiao, and Ziwei Liu. 2024b. Vbench++: Com-prehensive and versatile benchmark suite for video generative models. Preprint , arXiv:2411.13503. Tom Hume, Matthew Carey, and Thomas Iljic. 2025. Meet Flow: AI-powered filmmaking with Veo 3. Paul Jaccard. 1912. The distribution of the flora in the alpine zone. 1. New phytologist , 11(2):37–50. Nithish Kannen, Arif Ahmad, Marco Andreetto, Vinod-kumar Prabhakaran, Utsav Prabhu, Adji Bousso Di-eng, Pushpak Bhattacharyya, and Shachi Dave. 2024. Beyond aesthetics: cultural competence in text-to-image models. In Proceedings of the 38th Interna-tional Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems , NIPS ’24, Red Hook, NY, USA. Curran Associates Inc. Simran Khanuja, Sathyanarayanan Ramamoorthy, Yueqi Song, and Graham Neubig. 2024. An im-age speaks a thousand words, but can everyone lis-ten? on image transcreation for cultural relevance. In Proceedings of the 2024 Conference on Empiri-cal Methods in Natural Language Processing , pages 10258–10279, Miami, Florida, USA. Association for Computational Linguistics. Weijie Kong, Qi Tian, Zijian Zhang, Rox Min, Zuozhuo Dai, Jin Zhou, Jiangfeng Xiong, Xin Li, Bo Wu, Jianwei Zhang, Kathrina Wu, Qin Lin, Junkun Yuan, Yanxin Long, Aladdin Wang, Andong Wang, Changlin Li, Duojun Huang, Fang Yang, and 33 others. 2025. Hunyuanvideo: A systematic frame-work for large video generative models. Preprint ,arXiv:2412.03603. Max Ku, Dongfu Jiang, Cong Wei, Xiang Yue, and Wenhu Chen. 2024. Viescore: Towards explainable metrics for conditional image synthesis evaluation. 

Preprint , arXiv:2312.14867. Taegyeong Lee, Soyeong Kwon, and Taehwan Kim. 2024. Grid diffusion models for text-to-video gener-ation. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition , pages 8734–8743. Sina Malakouti, Boqing Gong, and Adriana Kovashka. 2026. Culture in action: Evaluating text-to-image models through social activities. In The Fourteenth International Conference on Learning Representa-tions .Shravan Nayak, Mehar Bhatia, Xiaofeng Zhang, Verena Rieser, Lisa Anne Hendricks, Sjoerd Van Steenkiste, Yash Goyal, Karolina Stanczak, and Aishwarya Agrawal. 2025. CulturalFrames: Assessing cultural expectation alignment in text-to-image models and evaluation metrics. In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2025 , pages 20918–20953, Suzhou, China. Association for Com-putational Linguistics. Shravan Nayak, Kanishk Jain, Rabiul Awal, Siva Reddy, Sjoerd Van Steenkiste, Lisa Anne Hendricks, Karolina Stanczak, and Aishwarya Agrawal. 2024. Benchmarking vision language models for cultural understanding. In Proceedings of the 2024 Confer-ence on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Pro-cessing , pages 5769–5790, Miami, Florida, USA. As-sociation for Computational Linguistics. OpenAI. 2024. Video generation models as world simu-lators. William Peebles and Saining Xie. 2023. Scalable diffusion models with transformers. Preprint ,arXiv:2212.09748. Jamie Ray, Heng Wang, Du Tran, Yufei Wang, Matt Feiszli, Lorenzo Torresani, and Manohar Paluri. 2018. Scenes-objects-actions: A multi-task, multi-label video dataset. In Proceedings of the European con-ference on computer vision (ECCV) , pages 635–651. Aniket Rege, Zinnia Nie, Mahesh Ramesh, Unmesh Raskar, Zhuoran Yu, Aditya Kusupati, Yong Jae Lee, and Ramya Korlakai Vinayak. 2025. Cure: Cul-tural gaps in the long tail of text-to-image systems. 

Preprint , arXiv:2506.08071. Nils Reimers and Iryna Gurevych. 2019. Sentence-bert: Sentence embeddings using siamese bert-networks. In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing . Associa-tion for Computational Linguistics. Uriel Singer, Adam Polyak, Thomas Hayes, Xi Yin, Jie An, Songyang Zhang, Qiyuan Hu, Harry Yang, Oron Ashual, Oran Gafni, Devi Parikh, Sonal Gupta, and Yaniv Taigman. 2023. Make-a-video: Text-to-video generation without text-video data. In The Eleventh International Conference on Learning Representa-tions .Tingyu Song, Tongyan Hu, Guo Gan, and Yilun Zhao. 2025. VF-eval: Evaluating multimodal LLMs for generating feedback on AIGC videos. In Proceedings of the 63rd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) ,pages 21126–21146, Vienna, Austria. Association for Computational Linguistics. Charles Spearman. 1961. The proof and measurement of association between two things. Thomas Unterthiner, Sjoerd van Steenkiste, Karol Ku-rach, Raphael Marinier, Marcin Michalski, and Syl-vain Gelly. 2019. Towards accurate generative mod-els of video: A new metric and challenges. Preprint ,arXiv:1812.01717. Team Wan, Ang Wang, Baole Ai, Bin Wen, Chaojie Mao, Chen-Wei Xie, Di Chen, Feiwu Yu, Haiming Zhao, Jianxiao Yang, Jianyuan Zeng, Jiayu Wang, Jingfeng Zhang, Jingren Zhou, Jinkai Wang, Jixuan Chen, Kai Zhu, Kang Zhao, Keyu Yan, and 43 others. 2025. Wan: Open and advanced large-scale video generative models. Preprint , arXiv:2503.20314. Xiang Wang, Shiwei Zhang, Hangjie Yuan, Zhiwu Qing, Biao Gong, Yingya Zhang, Yujun Shen, Changxin Gao, and Nong Sang. 2024. A recipe for scaling up text-to-video generation with text-free videos. In Pro-ceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition , pages 6572–6582. Yibin Wang, Yuhang Zang, Hao Li, Cheng Jin, and Jiaqi Wang. 2025. Unified reward model for multi-modal understanding and generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.05236 .An Yang, Anfeng Li, Baosong Yang, Beichen Zhang, Binyuan Hui, Bo Zheng, Bowen Yu, Chang Gao, Chengen Huang, Chenxu Lv, and 1 others. 2025a. Qwen3 technical report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.09388 .Zhuoyi Yang, Jiayan Teng, Wendi Zheng, Ming Ding, Shiyu Huang, Jiazheng Xu, Yuanming Yang, Wenyi Hong, Xiaohan Zhang, Guanyu Feng, Da Yin, Yux-uan.Zhang, Weihan Wang, Yean Cheng, Bin Xu, Xiaotao Gu, Yuxiao Dong, and Jie Tang. 2025b. Cogvideox: Text-to-video diffusion models with an expert transformer. In The Thirteenth International Conference on Learning Representations .Appendix 

This section provides additional examples to assist in the understanding and interpretation of the research work presented. Section A: Dataset Statistics Section B: Annotation Section C: Prompts Section D: Experiments 

## A Dataset Statistics and Analysis                                                                                                                                                                  

> Dimension Category Brazil Canada Chile China Germany India Iran Japan Poland S. Africa
> Identity Dates of Sig. 19 23 20 23 21 28 19 22 17 23
> Etiquette 11 15 12 13 17 18 19 16 13 18
> Family 13 14 12 14 12 11 11 11 10 0
> Greetings 11 10 10 10 912 12 13 11 12
> Religion 16 12 10 12 817 10 15 716
> Context Dates of Sig. 28 31 32 36 33 37 30 35 34 35
> Etiquette 20 20 22 28 21 24 25 27 19 26
> Family 15 17 17 17 13 14 14 14 15 0
> Greetings 14 11 12 12 12 13 13 15 11 14
> Religion 17 13 11 14 11 18 11 16 14 16
> Behavior Dates of Sig. 26 27 29 33 32 37 28 33 32 34
> Etiquette 21 20 23 27 22 23 24 25 19 26
> Family 15 15 17 17 12 14 13 14 14 0
> Greetings 14 11 12 13 11 13 13 13 11 14
> Religion 16 12 11 13 10 18 10 14 11 15

Table 1: Number of unique Identity, Context, and Behavior per country and category. South Africa contains no Family entries, reflecting the absence of Family category data points in the source CulturalFrames dataset. 

A.1 Cultural Atlas 

The Cultural Atlas is a landmark collaborative initiative developed through a partnership between Mosaica, SBS, and Multicultural NSW. Established in 2016, the project serves as a comprehensive educational resource aimed at enhancing cross-cultural literacy. It provides nuanced insights into the attitudes, social norms, and communication styles of Australia’s diverse populations. By synthesizing qualitative cultural observations with contemporary demographic statistics and settlement trends, the Atlas equips individuals and organizations with the tools necessary to navigate a pluralistic society. Ultimately, the project seeks to strengthen social cohesion and improve outcomes for all participants in Australia’s multicultural landscape (Cultural Atlas, 2016). To ensure a holistic understanding of each culture, the Atlas categorizes information into the following key domains: 

Dates of Significance Identifying pivotal religious, national, and cultural observances. This section provides historical context for community celebrations and aids in understanding the timing of significant cultural milestones. 

Religion An exploration of the spiritual frameworks and belief systems that shape a culture’s worldview. This includes how faith influences daily life, ethics, and community structures. 

Etiquette Guidelines on the social protocols and “unwritten rules” of interaction. This domain covers body language, gift-giving, and social taboos to facilitate respectful engagement. 

Family An analysis of the foundational social unit, focusing on kinship structures, gender roles, and authority dynamics. It examines the balance between individualistic and collectivistic values. 

Greetings A summary of appropriate verbal and non-verbal salutations. This includes the use of honorifics, physical gestures, and the level of formality required during initial contact. A.2 Similarity between countries on different categories 

To study the similarity between countries and different categories, We obtained cultural reference texts. We developed a Python web scraper that programmatically downloads cultural descriptions from the Cultural Atlas (culturalatlas.sbs.com.au), a publicly available cultural information resource. The script systematically retrieves articles for 10 countries (Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Germany, India, Iran, Japan, Poland, and South Africa) across five cultural categories: greetings, etiquette, family, religion, and dates of significanceyielding up to 50 country–category text documents. For each page, the script fetches the raw HTML, strips non-content elements (e.g., navigation, scripts, and styling), and extracts the main article text from paragraph, list, and heading elements using BeautifulSoup. The extracted texts are saved as individual plain-text files, with metadata including the source country, category, and URL. To quantify cultural similarity across nations, we computed semantic embeddings of the Cultural Atlas ground-truth texts using the all-MiniLM-L6-v2 (Reimers and Gurevych, 2019) sentence transformer model. Each country’s cultural descriptionsspanning greetings, etiquette, family, religion, and dates of significancewere encoded into dense vector representations and averaged to produce a single composite embedding per country. Pairwise cosine similarity was then computed across all 10 countries to construct a country-by-country similarity matrix, visualized as a heatmap. Additionally, per-category cross-country similarity matrices were generated to examine how cultural proximity between nations varies across specific domains. This embedding-based approach enables a data-driven comparison of cultural textual content, revealing which countries share the most and least similar cultural profiles according to the Cultural Atlas reference material. The embedding-based cross-country analysis revealed that cultural similarity varies substantially across domains. Greetings emerged as the most universally convergent category, with the highest average pairwise similarity (0.608), as cultures broadly describe similar conventions around handshakes, eye contact, and formal titles. In contrast, religion was the most divisive category (mean 0.445), exhibiting the widest similarity range (0.255–0.651), reflecting the fundamental diversity of religious traditions across the sampled nations. Family structures (mean 0.558) also showed relatively high cross-cultural similarity, as most cultures describe patriarchal structures, elder respect, and extended family systems, whereas etiquette (0.415) diverged sharply, suggesting that everyday social manners are more culturally specific than familial organization. At the country-pair level, India and Japan recorded the single highest cross-country similarity score in any category (0.732 in greetings), driven by shared conventions such as bowing, hierarchy-based greeting depth, honorific suffixes, and the avoidance of physical contact with strangers. Notably, large similarity swings were observed within the same country pair across categories. For instance, Brazil and Canada scored 0.646 in greetings but only 0.299 in etiquette, a swing of 0.348, indicating that while both cultures greet similarly through handshakes and informality, their broader social norms diverge considerably. Similarly, Chile and India scored 0.656 in family but only 0.322 in religion, reflecting shared extended family structures alongside completely divergent religious traditions. Several country-level patterns emerged as particularly noteworthy. Canada, despite its multicultural identity, was not a cultural middleman but rather an outlier in etiquette, recording the lowest average similarity to all other countries (0.369) in that category. Its informal, first-name-basis culture proved genuinely unique rather than a blend of other cultural norms. Chile stood out as the most culturally distinctive nation in both religion and dates of significance, likely driven by its Easter Island traditions such as the Tapati festival and Rapa Nui culture, combined with its specific Catholic-indigenous syncretism. Conversely, Germany emerged as the most central country in religion and dates of significance, with its cultural descriptions serving as a kind of baseline against which other nations are measured, likely because the Cultural Atlas frames German culture in broadly Western terms that partially overlap with many other cultures. Finally, the intra-region similarity gap was largest for religion, where pairs such as Germany–Poland, Brazil–Chile, and China–Japan shared religious traditions within their respective regions, while cross-region pairs like Chile–Iran (0.255) were almost entirely dissimilar. Please refer to Figure 9. (a) Greetings (b) Dates of Significance  

> (c) Etiquette (d) Family
> (e) Religion

Figure 9: Heatmaps showing similarity between countries across different cultural categories. B Annotation 

B.1 Participant Recruitment 

We recruited a total of N = 45 native evaluators (5 each) across 9 countries (India, China, South Africa, Japan, Brazil, Chile, Canada, Poland, and Germany). Participants were sourced through prolific, with the explicit requirement that each participant be a native resident or citizen of the country they were evaluating. Participants spanned diverse professional backgrounds, including entrepreneurs, musicians, homemakers, policymakers, and data analysts, to ensure that cultural judgments were not systematically skewed by technical familiarity with generative AI systems. Participation was voluntary and anonymous. Participants were paid 5USD for completing the study. No personally identifiable information was collected at any stage; all responses were used solely for academic research purposes. 

B.2 Annotation Platform and Setup 

Annotations were collected through the Prolific and Qualtrics platforms. Participants were required to complete the study on a laptop with a stable internet connection to ensure reliable video playback, and were instructed to work in a quiet environment where they could focus on visual details. The estimated completion time was 15 minutes. Each survey began with an informed consent question; participants were required to confirm that they understood and agreed to the terms of participation before proceeding. A critical instruction was provided at the outset: participants were explicitly told to base all their judgments on video frames only, and not to consider audio in their assessments. This ensured that all evaluations were grounded purely in the visual cultural content generated by each model, which is the modality C ULTURE SCORE measures. 

B.3 Annotation Task Design 

Each participant was assigned 9 video triplets, with each triplet corresponding to a single cultural prompt. Within each triplet, the three videos were generated by LTX-2, Wan 2.2, and Veo 3.1 Fast, respectively, and presented in randomized order to prevent position bias. For each triplet, participants completed a three-tier assessment in the following fixed order, as illustrated in Figure 9: (i) Question Relevance. Participants were shown a CULTURE SCORE generated evaluation question drawn from the Identity, Behavior, or Context dimension alongside all three videos. They judged whether the question constituted a meaningful and appropriate probe of cultural faithfulness for the given prompt, responding with a binary Yes/No. Questions marked as irrelevant by a majority of raters within a cohort were excluded from further analysis. (ii) Answer Accuracy. Participants were then asked to answer the same cultural question based strictly on visual evidence in the videos, selecting all videos for which the answer was affirmatively Yes. Multiple selections were permitted if the condition held true for more than one video. This tier assesses whether the cultural marker in question is visually legible to a native observer, independently of overall aesthetic preference. (iii) Human Preference Ranking. Finally, participants ranked all three videos from 1st to 3rd based on overall cultural faithfulness to the given prompt, using a drag-and-drop interface. Participants were explicitly instructed to rank based on cultural accuracy rather than visual quality or cinematic appeal. Participants were required to complete all three tiers before proceeding to the next triplet. Figure 10 presents a screenshot from the annotation platform. Figure 10: Annotation Platform-Humans annotated samples based on Question Relevance, Answer Accuracy, and Human Preference Ranking. C Prompt Specifications 

In the following, we provide details on all the prompts used in this research. 

C.1 Identity, Behavior, Context 

The first stage decomposes each base cultural prompt into its three constituent dimensions: Identity, Behavior, and Context. This decomposition is a prerequisite for all downstream stages, as it provides the structured inputs used in extended prompt construction. System Prompt: IBC ExtrBehavior Analyze the image prompt and extract Identity, Behavior, and Context using these rules: 1. Identity : The primary human or living subject(s). 2. Behavior : The physical activity, gesture, or movement. 3. Context : The setting, atmosphere, and background details (including what is being watched). 

EXAMPLES: 

Prompt: ”Indian family greeting elder with feet-touching gesture at home” Output: {"Identity" : ”Indian family”, "Behavior" : ”Greeting elder with feet-touching gesture”, 

"Context" : ”Indian home” }

Prompt: ”Germans watching New Year’s concert on television” Output: {"Identity" : ”Germans”, "Behavior" : ”Watching”, "Context" : ”New Year’s concert on television” }

TASK: 

Prompt: ” {prompt text }”Return ONLY a JSON Identity with keys "Identity" , "Behavior" , and "Context" . ””” 

C.2 Extended Prompting 

This stage constructs the Extended Prompt variant used as the primary evaluation condition in our experiments. Extended prompts augment the base prompt with explicit, dictionary-grounded visual descriptions for each of the three IBC dimensions, giving video generation models detailed guidance on what Identity, Behavior, and Context should look like in the generated video. System Prompt: Extended Prompting 

task prompt = f””” TASK: 

Create a detailed video generation prompt. You must extend the ’Behavior’, ’Identity’, and ’Context’ using their formal definitions grounded in the Oxford Dictionary. 

INPUTS: 

• Prompt: {prompt text }

• Behavior: {Behavior }

• Identity: {Identity }

• Context: {Context }

FORMAT: 

”Cinematic shot. {prompt text }. [Behavior]: [Detailed visual description of the Behav-ior: {Behavior } from oxford dictionary], [Identity]: [Detailed visual description of the Identity: 

{Identity } from oxford dictionary], and [Context]: [Detailed visual description of the Context: 

{Context } from Oxford Dictionary].” 

OUTPUT: 

Return ONLY the final string following the format above. Do not include labels like ’Output:’ or extra commentary. 

””” 

C.3 Geographical Constraint Removed Prompting 

This stage constructs the Geographical Constraint Removed variant, used exclusively in the implicit cultural knowledge ablation (RQ3). This prompt variant is produced by stripping explicit country-level identifiers from the base prompt while preserving all cultural, religious, and lifestyle descriptors that do not name a specific nation. 

System Prompt: Geographical Constraint Removed Prompting 

task prompt =

""" 

TASK: 

Rewrite the following image prompt to remove any mention of specific countries (e.g., India, Indian, Germany, German, USA, American, etc.). 

IMPORTANT: Keep religious, cultural, or lifestyle descriptors (e.g., Muslim, Halal, Festive, Buddhist, Vegan). 

EXAMPLES: Input: “Indian Muslim family enjoying a halal feast at home” 

Output: “Muslim family enjoying a halal feast at home” 

Input: “German elderly couple walking in a park” 

Output: “Elderly couple walking in a park” 

Input: “A traditional Japanese tea ceremony in Tokyo” 

Output: “A traditional tea ceremony in Tokyo” 

TASK: Input: “{prompt text }”Return ONLY the rewritten string. No explanations. 

""" C.4 Question Generator 

This stage generates the culturally grounded question-answer pairs used to evaluate generated videos. For each extended prompt, a language model acting as a cultural anthropologist and visual evaluator produces a set of Yes/No evaluation questions decomposed across the Identity, Behavior, and Context dimensions. In total, this stage produces 9,289 question-answer pairs across all prompts and models. System Prompt 

SYSTEM PROMPT = ””” You are an expert cultural anthropologist, visual evaluator, and prompt engineer. Your task is to analyze a given video generation prompt and systematically generate an exhaustive evaluation framework to measure the cultural faithfulness of the resulting generated video. Decompose the prompt into three categories: Context, Identity, and Behavior. 

Strict Guidelines: 

1. Yes/No Format: Every question must be structured so that a ”Yes” indicates cultural faithfulness and a ”No” indicates a failure or cultural inaccuracy. 2. Embedded Visual Descriptions: Embed precise visual, physical, or spatial descriptions directly into the question. Do not assume the evaluating model has implicit cultural knowledge. (e.g., Instead of ”Is the person wearing a traditional Kimono?”, ask ”Is the person wearing a traditional Kimono, characterized by left-over-right wrapped lapels and wide, square-cut sleeves?”). 3. Temporal Grounding (Crucial for Behaviors): Questions MUST explicitly probe the sequence, duration, physics, or progression of the movement across frames. (e.g., ”Does the pouring Behavior begin with the vessel held low, smoothly rise to a higher elevation, and return low without breaking the stream?”). 4. Explicit vs. Implicit: Generate questions for explicitly requested elements, AND mandatory implicit elements required for cultural authenticity. Actively avoid Western-centric stereotypes (e.g., implicitly checking that a traditional daily Context avoids hyper-exoticized or religious backdrops unless the Context or the prompt requires them). 5. Weighting Strategy (1-10 Scale): 

• 8–10: Critical explicit elements or absolute cultural boundaries. • 4–7: Expected contextual elements and secondary Identitys that enhance authenticity. • 1–3: Minor background details or high-fidelity nuances. ””” 

C.5 Question Verifier 

This stage filters out questions that, despite being generated from culturally validated prompts, make claims about cultural elements that are factually inaccurate or not genuinely grounded in the target culture. This step is necessary because the question generator in Stage can occasionally produce questions that embed incorrect or hallucinated cultural details. For example, attributing a practice to a country where it does not originate, which would corrupt the evaluation signal. System Prompt: Question Verifier 

””” TASK: 

The following question describes a visual Context. Verify if the cultural elements mentioned (Identitys, practices, symbols, customs) are grounded in actual {culture } cultural practices or facts: Question: ” {question }”Focus on whether the specific cultural elements mentioned are real and accurate for {culture } culture. 

OUTPUT FORMAT (Strict JSON, no extra text before or after): 

{

"grounded" : ”Yes” or ”No”, 

"evidence" : ”1-sentence summary confirming or denying the cultural element is authentic” 

}

””” 

C.6 Answer Generator 

This stage evaluates each generated video against the verified question set from Stage. A vision-language model (Qwen3-VL-235B) is provided with a generated video and a single cultural question, and is asked to reason carefully before producing a binary Yes/No answer indicating whether the video is culturally faithful with respect to what the question asks. System Prompt: Answer Generator You are an expert cultural anthropologist and visual evaluator assessing the cultural faithfulness of a generated video. When answering each question, you MUST reason within <think> </think> tags following these steps: 1. Identify the visual evidence: Describe exactly what you observe in the video frames—specific Identitys, clothing details, spatial arrangements, architectural elements, lighting, and colors. 2. Assess cultural accuracy: Compare your observations against the culturally specific visual descriptions embedded in the question. Do not rely on implicit cultural knowledge—only evaluate what the question explicitly describes. 3. Evaluate temporal and physical coherence (for Behavior questions): Examine the sequence, duration, physics, and progression of movements across frames. Note whether Behaviors follow the temporal grounding specified in the question. 4. Check for stereotyping or inauthenticity: Flag if the video substitutes Western-centric defaults, hyper-exoticized elements, or generic representations in place of the specific cultural markers described in the question. After your reasoning, provide the final answer as either Yes or No. ”Yes” means the video is culturally faithful for what the question asks. ”No” means it fails or is culturally inaccurate. The final answer MUST BE put in a box. For example: Yes or No . 

C.7 Cultural Uniqueness Classifier 

This stage is a filtering step applied exclusively in the Geographical Constraint Removed ablation (RQ3). After country names are stripped from base prompts, not all remaining prompts are equally informative for probing implicit cultural knowledge. Some de-anchored prompts describe activities so universal — such as ”a family having dinner” or ”people watching television” — that no model, regardless of cultural competence, could reasonably be expected to generate a culturally specific output from them. Including such prompts in the ablation would dilute the signal and misattribute generic outputs as cultural failures. System Prompt: Cultural Uniqueness Classifier 

You are a cultural analyst specializing in identifying whether a scene description is distinctly tied to a specific country or culture. 

Your task: Given a scene description (with the country name removed) and the target country, decide whether the described scene is culturally unique to that country. 

Definition of “culturally unique”: A prompt is culturally unique if it contains at least one element—such as a specific holiday, ritual, tradition, food, object, language term, landmark, or custom—that is distinctly and strongly associated with the given country. A casual observer familiar with world cultures would recognize it as belonging to that country. 

A prompt is NOT culturally unique if: 

• The scene could plausibly occur in any country (e.g., “a family having dinner”, “friends meeting at a cafe”) • The activity is common across many cultures (e.g., “people watching TV”, “a wedding ceremony”) • Only the time or season makes it distinct, not the cultural elements (e.g., “family watching fireworks on New Year’s Eve”) • The elements are broadly Western/universal rather than country-specific • The tradition or practice is shared across several neighboring countries without a country-specific distinguishing detail 

Examples: 

Country: Germany — Prompt: “Couple meeting at a sports club gathering” 

→ is culturally unique: false 

→ Sports club gatherings happen in virtually every country. 

Country: Japan — Prompt: “Tea ceremony with guests appreciating matcha” 

→ is culturally unique: true 

→ The Japanese tea ceremony ( chado/chanoyu ) is a codified cultural ritual unique to Japan. 

Country: Poland — Prompt: “Family sharing the opłatek wafer before Christmas Eve dinner” 

→ is culturally unique: true 

→ Sharing opłatek before the Wigilia supper is a distinctly Polish Catholic tradition. Apply the same careful reasoning to the input you receive. 

## D Experiments 

D.1 Model Specifications Wan2.2 (Wan et al., 2025) We utilize the Wan2.2-T2V-A14B checkpoint for the text-to-video task. Generations are configured at a resolution of 1280 × 720 with a frame count of 49 to produce 5-second clips. The sampling process uses 20 steps with convert model dtype enabled and the T5 encoder running on CPU ( --t5 cpu )to manage memory overhead. We generate a total of 2,943 videos ( 981 × 3 variations) for this model. 

LTX-2 (HaCohen et al., 2024) We employ a multi-component setup to ensure max-imum output quality. This includes the ltx-2-19b-dev-fp8.safetensors base checkpoint, the gemma-3-12b-it-qat-q4 0-unquantized text encoder, and the 

ltx-2-19b-distilled-lora-384.safetensors for enhanced distillation. To achieve final reso-lution, we apply the ltx-2-spatial-upscaler-x2-1.0.safetensors spatial upsampler. Similar to Wan2.2, this model is evaluated across all 2,943 prompt instances. 

Veo 3.1 Fast (Google DeepMind) We use the veo-3.1-fast-generate-001 model via the Google DeepMind API. Due to the high operational costs associated with the Veo API, we do not run the full suite of 981 prompts. Instead, we take a stratified sample across cultural categories to generate 294 videos. This allows us to maintain a statistically significant comparison with the other SOTA models while remaining within computational and budgetary constraints. In total, our generation pipeline produced 6,180 videos for evaluation. 

D.2 VideoScore across Models 

VideoScore (He et al., 2024) is an automated evaluation metric designed to simulate fine-grained human feedback for generative video models. It calculates scores across: Visual Quality (spatial clarity, resolution, and aesthetic appeal), Temporal Consistency (the absence of flickering, warping, or sudden object morphing across frames), Dynamic Degree (the presence of fluid and significant motion), Text-to-Video Alignment (how accurately the visual content matches the semantic intent of the text prompt), and Factual Consistency (adherence to physical laws and common-sense logic). In the following Tables 2, 3, and 4, we have reported average videoscore across all five dimensions for LTX-2 (HaCohen et al., 2024). For Wan2.2 (Wan et al., 2025), we have reported scores in Table 5. For Veo 3.1 (Google DeepMind), we have reported scores in Table 6, 7 and 8. 

D.3 CultureScore across Models 

In the following, we categorize CultureScore across countries and categories for LTX-2(HaCohen et al., 2024), (Wan et al., 2025), and Veo 3.1 Fast (Google DeepMind). Wan 2.2 (Wan et al., 2025) consistently outperformed for Identity and Context, and Veo 3.1 Fast (Google DeepMind) for behavior. Table 9, 10 for overall comparison across prompting strategies. Table 11, 12 for lTX-2 (HaCohen et al., 2024), Table 13, 14, 15, and 16 for Wan 2.2 (Wan et al., 2025) and Veo 3.1 Fast (Google DeepMind) Further provide all scores across countries and categories. Country Category Visual Quality Temporal Consistency Dynamic Degree Text-to-Video Alignment Factual Consistency 

Brazil dates-of-significance 3.485 3.445 3.431 3.243 3.496 Brazil etiquette 3.685 3.679 3.627 3.555 3.674 Brazil family 3.547 3.471 3.555 3.394 3.496 Brazil greetings 3.621 3.582 3.65 3.488 3.619 Brazil religion 3.528 3.525 3.456 3.236 3.55 Canada dates-of-significance 3.624 3.55 3.533 3.274 3.604 Canada etiquette 3.58 3.549 3.504 3.27 3.56 Canada family 3.401 3.332 3.396 3.187 3.376 Canada greetings 3.673 3.622 3.695 3.489 3.655 Canada religion 3.363 3.329 3.311 3.045 3.391 Chile dates-of-significance 3.376 3.304 3.356 3.129 3.389 Chile etiquette 3.578 3.533 3.527 3.407 3.554 Chile family 3.293 3.168 3.299 3.025 3.246 Chile greetings 3.608 3.57 3.609 3.46 3.596 Chile religion 3.437 3.367 3.317 3.043 3.432 China dates-of-significance 3.615 3.579 3.57 3.373 3.605 China etiquette 3.775 3.713 3.704 3.567 3.746 China family 3.791 3.728 3.753 3.546 3.76 China greetings 3.65 3.56 3.609 3.416 3.638 China religion 3.715 3.697 3.507 3.416 3.74 Germany dates-of-significance 3.281 3.238 3.152 3.093 3.285 Germany etiquette 3.387 3.327 3.399 3.299 3.373 Germany family 3.287 3.264 3.208 3.156 3.293 Germany greetings 3.559 3.52 3.513 3.418 3.557 Germany religion 3.007 3.081 2.859 2.906 3.094 India dates-of-significance 3.57 3.518 3.527 3.307 3.561 India etiquette 3.668 3.614 3.605 3.488 3.646 India family 3.562 3.493 3.517 3.373 3.552 India greetings 3.668 3.62 3.596 3.472 3.671 India religion 3.726 3.678 3.658 3.467 3.715 Iran dates-of-significance 3.623 3.582 3.557 3.335 3.63 Iran etiquette 3.796 3.762 3.763 3.605 3.775 Iran family 3.673 3.64 3.637 3.472 3.67 Iran greetings 3.877 3.844 3.866 3.662 3.863 Iran religion 3.624 3.57 3.605 3.415 3.634 Japan dates-of-significance 3.283 3.238 3.164 3.021 3.29 Japan etiquette 3.595 3.514 3.521 3.394 3.545 Japan family 3.171 3.169 3.042 3.008 3.2 Japan greetings 3.467 3.447 3.345 3.271 3.488 Japan religion 3.054 3.064 2.796 2.771 3.071 Poland dates-of-significance 3.377 3.33 3.217 3.044 3.364 Poland etiquette 3.357 3.317 3.241 3.141 3.338 Poland family 3.29 3.174 3.236 3.078 3.254 Poland greetings 3.138 3.126 3.011 2.988 3.162 Poland religion 3.075 3.081 2.876 2.874 3.116 South Africa dates-of-significance 3.645 3.607 3.54 3.357 3.641 South Africa etiquette 3.624 3.591 3.549 3.366 3.603 South Africa greetings 3.655 3.624 3.651 3.471 3.654 South Africa religion 3.54 3.547 3.472 3.223 3.587 

Table 2: Average VideoScore (LTX-2 (HaCohen et al., 2024)) for base prompts, grouped by country and category. Country Category Visual Quality Temporal Consistency Dynamic Degree Text-to-Video Alignment Factual Consistency 

Brazil dates-of-significance 3.579 3.547 3.586 3.434 3.583 Brazil etiquette 3.386 3.322 3.416 3.291 3.367 Brazil family 3.263 3.259 3.271 3.216 3.297 Brazil greetings 3.465 3.431 3.493 3.385 3.462 Brazil religion 3.646 3.628 3.625 3.451 3.657 Canada dates-of-significance 3.576 3.516 3.544 3.338 3.563 Canada etiquette 3.302 3.274 3.21 3.193 3.299 Canada family 3.268 3.207 3.269 3.164 3.231 Canada greetings 3.205 3.203 3.25 3.194 3.222 Canada religion 3.541 3.519 3.523 3.404 3.555 Chile dates-of-significance 3.365 3.304 3.379 3.186 3.363 Chile etiquette 3.252 3.228 3.18 3.15 3.209 Chile family 3.287 3.225 3.329 3.223 3.277 Chile greetings 3.442 3.387 3.454 3.306 3.433 Chile religion 3.516 3.487 3.514 3.366 3.531 China dates-of-significance 3.543 3.524 3.459 3.328 3.53 China etiquette 3.773 3.727 3.741 3.57 3.743 China family 3.703 3.688 3.654 3.463 3.699 China greetings 3.504 3.47 3.413 3.346 3.525 China religion 3.482 3.49 3.281 3.272 3.503 Germany dates-of-significance 3.281 3.21 3.277 3.088 3.259 Germany etiquette 3.035 2.994 3.003 2.989 3.001 Germany family 2.995 2.974 3.008 3.005 2.97 Germany greetings 3.03 3.018 3.04 3.039 3.052 Germany religion 3.311 3.341 3.142 3.117 3.341 India dates-of-significance 3.448 3.421 3.34 3.252 3.451 India etiquette 3.56 3.508 3.483 3.377 3.553 India family 3.586 3.51 3.52 3.352 3.583 India greetings 3.411 3.406 3.271 3.264 3.442 India religion 3.387 3.405 3.233 3.234 3.437 Iran dates-of-significance 3.453 3.432 3.414 3.279 3.456 Iran etiquette 3.669 3.641 3.623 3.528 3.656 Iran family 3.277 3.239 3.259 3.138 3.243 Iran greetings 3.518 3.501 3.518 3.405 3.541 Iran religion 3.459 3.479 3.366 3.341 3.483 Japan dates-of-significance 3.352 3.328 3.229 3.176 3.353 Japan etiquette 3.432 3.383 3.381 3.305 3.413 Japan family 3.332 3.304 3.31 3.22 3.34 Japan greetings 3.126 3.147 2.875 3.011 3.169 Japan religion 3.203 3.217 2.992 3.039 3.223 Poland dates-of-significance 3.35 3.298 3.312 3.164 3.341 Poland etiquette 3.21 3.184 3.189 3.142 3.189 Poland family 3.299 3.214 3.338 3.238 3.284 Poland greetings 3.241 3.166 3.283 3.156 3.247 Poland religion 3.328 3.318 3.204 3.157 3.325 South Africa dates-of-significance 3.546 3.521 3.506 3.33 3.566 South Africa etiquette 3.137 3.138 3.097 3.032 3.165 South Africa greetings 3.454 3.461 3.429 3.34 3.491 South Africa religion 3.508 3.511 3.434 3.195 3.559 

Table 3: Average VideoScore (LTX-2(HaCohen et al., 2024)) for extended prompts, grouped by country and category. Country Category Visual Quality Temporal Consistency Dynamic Degree Text-to-Video Alignment Factual Consistency 

Brazil dates-of-significance 3.438 3.381 3.375 3.18 3.429 Brazil etiquette 3.611 3.605 3.55 3.489 3.61 Brazil family 3.488 3.388 3.497 3.367 3.447 Brazil greetings 3.54 3.46 3.607 3.376 3.525 Brazil religion 3.349 3.334 3.244 2.961 3.361 Canada dates-of-significance 3.539 3.505 3.412 3.273 3.547 Canada etiquette 3.587 3.519 3.557 3.266 3.545 Canada family 3.223 3.147 3.233 3.052 3.175 Canada greetings 3.496 3.442 3.498 3.402 3.497 Canada religion 2.975 2.975 2.84 2.787 3.062 Chile dates-of-significance 3.268 3.163 3.276 3.05 3.254 Chile etiquette 3.336 3.312 3.196 3.12 3.319 Chile family 3.148 3.059 3.112 2.923 3.124 Chile greetings 3.54 3.474 3.513 3.397 3.516 Chile religion 2.989 2.942 2.81 2.734 3.038 China dates-of-significance 3.333 3.273 3.253 3.082 3.32 China etiquette 3.355 3.297 3.223 3.192 3.326 China family 3.433 3.311 3.458 3.184 3.392 China greetings 3.103 3.065 3.039 2.989 3.117 China religion 3.296 3.32 2.976 2.982 3.344 Germany dates-of-significance 3.261 3.244 3.15 3.094 3.267 Germany etiquette 3.557 3.516 3.57 3.457 3.524 Germany family 3.576 3.493 3.534 3.256 3.522 Germany greetings 3.617 3.539 3.578 3.43 3.576 Germany religion 3.268 3.331 3.064 3.084 3.335 India dates-of-significance 3.497 3.418 3.45 3.229 3.479 India etiquette 3.534 3.5 3.484 3.364 3.538 India family 3.279 3.252 3.234 3.08 3.315 India greetings 3.293 3.227 3.193 3.126 3.279 India religion 3.432 3.431 3.358 3.233 3.466 Iran dates-of-significance 3.349 3.266 3.196 3.022 3.319 Iran etiquette 3.334 3.309 3.251 3.189 3.318 Iran family 3.257 3.211 3.22 3.131 3.24 Iran greetings 3.27 3.232 3.26 3.184 3.233 Iran religion 3.21 3.192 3.114 3.067 3.239 Japan dates-of-significance 3.306 3.269 3.195 3.081 3.323 Japan etiquette 3.608 3.534 3.581 3.445 3.552 Japan family 3.508 3.443 3.478 3.266 3.483 Japan greetings 3.314 3.319 3.193 3.137 3.335 Japan religion 3.118 3.097 2.946 2.886 3.119 Poland dates-of-significance 3.44 3.346 3.353 3.12 3.403 Poland etiquette 3.643 3.591 3.608 3.46 3.581 Poland family 3.372 3.226 3.353 3.122 3.315 Poland greetings 3.268 3.243 3.205 3.144 3.295 Poland religion 3.036 3.009 2.795 2.827 3.03 South Africa dates-of-significance 3.438 3.392 3.377 3.145 3.436 South Africa etiquette 3.439 3.393 3.429 3.333 3.417 South Africa greetings 3.516 3.479 3.52 3.362 3.531 South Africa religion 3.203 3.169 3.097 2.922 3.235 

Table 4: Average VideoScore (LTX-2 (HaCohen et al., 2024)) for geographical constraint removed prompts, grouped by country and category. Country Category Visual Quality Temporal Consistency Dynamic Degree Text-to-Video Alignment Factual Consistency 

Brazil dates-of-significance 2.76 2.79 2.64 2.73 2.74 Brazil etiquette 2.74 2.82 2.54 2.78 2.69 Brazil family 2.79 2.86 2.6 2.81 2.79 Brazil greetings 2.73 2.82 2.54 2.7 2.73 Brazil religion 2.76 2.84 2.56 2.69 2.79 Canada dates-of-significance 2.8 2.82 2.61 2.7 2.77 Canada etiquette 2.75 2.76 2.6 2.73 2.67 Canada family 2.74 2.79 2.61 2.83 2.71 Canada greetings 2.73 2.83 2.55 2.76 2.7 Canada religion 2.75 2.81 2.51 2.66 2.76 Chile dates-of-significance 2.8 2.84 2.62 2.74 2.77 Chile etiquette 2.75 2.82 2.52 2.73 2.71 Chile family 2.76 2.8 2.61 2.78 2.73 Chile greetings 2.75 2.85 2.51 2.75 2.76 Chile religion 2.75 2.83 2.53 2.65 2.78 China dates-of-significance 2.76 2.8 2.53 2.71 2.75 China etiquette 2.74 2.77 2.5 2.71 2.66 China family 2.75 2.83 2.47 2.7 2.71 China greetings 2.74 2.83 2.46 2.72 2.78 China religion 2.78 2.91 2.13 2.72 2.83 Germany dates-of-significance 2.73 2.79 2.55 2.66 2.72 Germany etiquette 2.73 2.78 2.51 2.73 2.67 Germany family 2.75 2.81 2.57 2.78 2.71 Germany greetings 2.76 2.87 2.47 2.78 2.76 Germany religion 2.76 2.88 2.34 2.73 2.82 India dates-of-significance 2.79 2.86 2.43 2.72 2.79 India etiquette 2.75 2.8 2.43 2.71 2.71 India family 2.77 2.85 2.45 2.76 2.76 India greetings 2.78 2.87 2.49 2.74 2.81 India religion 2.78 2.83 2.47 2.74 2.8 Iran dates-of-significance 2.74 2.84 2.46 2.63 2.74 Iran etiquette 2.76 2.84 2.45 2.71 2.7 Iran family 2.76 2.85 2.54 2.79 2.73 Iran greetings 2.77 2.88 2.44 2.73 2.78 Iran religion 2.74 2.87 2.39 2.78 2.75 Japan dates-of-significance 2.71 2.78 2.37 2.64 2.69 Japan etiquette 2.74 2.8 2.39 2.71 2.67 Japan family 2.75 2.83 2.52 2.79 2.74 Japan greetings 2.71 2.76 2.42 2.67 2.64 Japan religion 2.73 2.82 2.28 2.63 2.69 Poland dates-of-significance 2.72 2.78 2.49 2.64 2.68 Poland etiquette 2.72 2.8 2.46 2.66 2.64 Poland family 2.71 2.77 2.53 2.76 2.68 Poland greetings 2.76 2.89 2.46 2.72 2.77 Poland religion 2.77 2.88 2.44 2.68 2.79 South Africa dates-of-significance 2.77 2.83 2.56 2.7 2.77 South Africa etiquette 2.75 2.84 2.51 2.77 2.72 South Africa greetings 2.76 2.87 2.48 2.71 2.76 South Africa religion 2.75 2.86 2.44 2.66 2.8 

Table 5: Average Videoscore (Wan 2.2 (Wan et al., 2025)) for base prompt grouped by Country and Category. Country Category Visual Quality Temporal Consistency Dynamic Degree Text-to-Video Alignment Factual Consistency 

Brazil dates-of-significance 2.90 3.06 2.70 2.84 3.01 Brazil etiquette 2.66 2.62 2.70 2.78 2.53 Brazil family 2.84 2.84 2.73 2.86 2.80 Brazil greetings 2.82 2.87 2.76 2.88 2.77 Brazil religion 2.72 2.70 2.68 2.80 2.67 Canada dates-of-significance 3.30 3.23 3.31 3.16 3.27 Canada etiquette 2.80 2.79 2.82 2.80 2.80 Canada family 2.80 2.91 2.73 2.86 2.83 Canada greetings 2.68 2.80 2.64 2.77 2.64 Canada religion 3.66 3.60 3.52 3.50 3.62 Chile dates-of-significance 3.02 2.96 2.95 2.92 2.91 Chile etiquette 2.69 2.75 2.58 2.78 2.64 Chile family 2.58 2.60 2.67 2.66 2.52 Chile greetings 2.63 2.70 2.61 2.69 2.65 Chile religion 2.83 2.92 2.57 2.83 2.86 China dates-of-significance 2.76 2.68 2.49 2.48 2.52 China etiquette 2.76 2.84 2.58 2.83 2.66 China family 2.75 2.66 2.66 2.59 2.56 China greetings 2.66 2.74 2.73 2.79 2.73 China religion 2.88 2.84 2.47 2.84 2.78 Germany dates-of-significance 2.66 2.65 2.48 2.64 2.62 Germany etiquette 2.82 2.69 2.43 2.66 2.70 Germany family 2.77 2.78 2.66 2.84 2.66 Germany greetings 2.66 2.70 2.53 2.71 2.60 Germany religion 2.86 2.90 2.61 2.85 2.88 India dates-of-significance 2.91 2.94 2.70 2.78 2.88 India etiquette 2.71 2.75 2.50 2.57 2.51 India family 2.76 2.82 2.39 2.60 2.62 India greetings 2.75 2.84 2.48 2.77 2.75 India religion 2.83 2.77 2.49 2.84 2.77 Iran dates-of-significance 2.80 2.80 2.61 2.73 2.73 Iran etiquette 2.78 2.77 2.65 2.78 2.68 Iran family 2.82 2.91 2.49 2.85 2.75 Iran greetings 2.84 2.95 2.43 2.75 2.76 Iran religion 2.80 2.83 2.47 2.88 2.77 Japan dates-of-significance 2.73 2.84 2.21 2.77 2.64 Japan etiquette 2.91 2.83 2.83 2.78 2.75 Japan family 2.73 2.84 2.31 2.73 2.66 Japan greetings 2.68 2.62 2.62 2.62 2.61 Japan religion 2.77 2.98 2.27 2.72 2.84 Poland dates-of-significance 2.74 2.76 2.63 2.80 2.72 Poland etiquette 2.90 2.91 2.88 2.92 2.89 Poland family 2.80 2.80 2.60 2.77 2.69 Poland greetings 2.85 2.82 2.91 2.90 2.82 Poland religion 3.19 3.22 2.93 3.07 3.16 South Africa dates-of-significance 3.20 3.20 3.24 3.13 3.23 South Africa etiquette 2.63 2.70 2.63 2.63 2.56 South Africa greetings 2.78 2.94 2.52 2.80 2.82 South Africa religion 3.23 3.14 3.16 3.11 3.23 

Table 6: Average Videoscore (Veo 3.1 Fast ((Google DeepMind))) for base prompt grouped by country and category. Country Category Visual Quality Temporal Consistency Dynamic Degree Text-to-Video Alignment Factual Consistency 

Brazil dates-of-significance 2.60 2.67 2.58 2.62 2.66 Brazil etiquette 2.64 2.75 2.66 2.84 2.66 Brazil family 2.72 2.73 2.65 2.89 2.62 Brazil greetings 2.73 2.91 2.48 2.80 2.75 Brazil religion 2.76 2.88 2.52 2.82 2.80 Canada dates-of-significance 3.30 3.30 3.37 3.22 3.34 Canada etiquette 2.75 2.69 2.72 2.73 2.72 Canada family 3.03 3.08 2.91 3.03 3.00 Canada greetings 2.82 2.86 2.79 2.93 2.80 Canada religion 3.16 3.12 2.97 3.10 3.19 Chile dates-of-significance 3.67 3.59 3.66 3.44 3.64 Chile etiquette 2.70 2.73 2.55 2.73 2.59 Chile family 2.71 2.62 2.70 2.73 2.62 Chile greetings 2.84 2.89 2.70 2.84 2.88 Chile religion 2.80 2.87 2.54 2.73 2.79 China dates-of-significance 2.80 2.79 2.48 2.65 2.59 China etiquette 2.73 2.84 2.36 2.70 2.59 China family 2.80 2.88 2.61 2.80 2.66 China greetings 2.73 2.79 2.67 2.80 2.75 China religion 2.74 2.94 2.12 2.77 2.80 Germany dates-of-significance 2.69 2.69 2.46 2.59 2.57 Germany etiquette 2.71 2.71 2.57 2.66 2.63 Germany family 2.80 2.84 2.52 2.84 2.63 Germany greetings 2.65 2.65 2.59 2.77 2.55 Germany religion 2.80 2.91 2.56 2.85 2.82 India dates-of-significance 2.73 2.83 2.54 2.66 2.72 India etiquette 2.60 2.63 2.48 2.64 2.48 India family 2.88 2.84 2.62 2.88 2.78 India greetings 2.89 2.98 2.41 2.81 2.81 India religion 2.74 2.82 2.36 2.84 2.76 Iran dates-of-significance 3.24 3.27 3.07 3.09 3.22 Iran etiquette 3.28 3.30 3.12 3.12 3.25 Iran family 2.70 2.77 2.52 2.78 2.59 Iran greetings 2.86 2.94 2.48 2.75 2.76 Iran religion 2.72 2.67 2.66 2.77 2.67 Japan dates-of-significance 2.75 2.88 2.45 2.77 2.68 Japan etiquette 2.69 2.51 2.73 2.64 2.50 Japan family 2.82 2.91 2.45 2.88 2.78 Japan greetings 2.77 2.94 2.00 2.50 2.69 Japan religion 2.80 2.96 2.26 2.80 2.84 Poland dates-of-significance 2.80 2.90 2.46 2.83 2.79 Poland etiquette 2.73 2.73 2.64 2.66 2.62 Poland family 2.68 2.66 2.62 2.77 2.63 Poland greetings 2.90 2.94 2.76 2.90 2.91 Poland religion 2.78 2.82 2.64 2.77 2.77 South Africa dates-of-significance 2.86 2.91 2.75 2.85 2.90 South Africa etiquette 2.67 2.72 2.56 2.56 2.66 South Africa greetings 2.72 2.69 2.73 2.80 2.70 South Africa religion 2.67 2.81 2.31 2.72 2.70 

Table 7: Average VideoScore evaluation of Veo 3.1 Fast (Google DeepMind) for extended prompt generations across countries and categories. Country Category Visual Quality Temporal Consistency Dynamic Degree Text-to-Video Alignment Factual Consistency 

Brazil dates-of-significance 2.69 2.86 2.33 2.72 2.75 Brazil etiquette 2.56 2.59 2.73 2.81 2.53 Brazil family 2.68 2.70 2.61 2.84 2.55 Brazil greetings 2.74 2.86 2.59 2.79 2.80 Brazil religion 2.69 2.70 2.55 2.75 2.67 Canada dates-of-significance 2.86 2.80 2.72 2.77 2.79 Canada etiquette 2.87 2.90 2.80 2.91 2.88 Canada family 2.69 2.79 2.73 2.89 2.65 Canada greetings 2.72 2.77 2.62 2.66 2.62 Canada religion 3.02 2.92 3.03 3.05 3.01 Chile dates-of-significance 3.63 3.49 3.73 3.48 3.48 Chile etiquette 2.75 2.73 2.70 2.82 2.66 Chile family 2.59 2.55 2.72 2.78 2.42 Chile greetings 2.77 2.92 2.45 2.77 2.81 Chile religion 3.00 2.97 2.88 2.89 2.95 China dates-of-significance 2.80 2.69 2.55 2.80 2.53 China etiquette 2.70 2.70 2.55 2.64 2.54 China family 3.24 3.23 3.09 3.09 3.12 China greetings 3.12 3.12 3.20 3.15 3.14 China religion 2.85 2.91 2.41 2.86 2.84 Germany dates-of-significance 2.71 2.71 2.46 2.62 2.62 Germany etiquette 2.78 2.75 2.23 2.73 2.71 Germany family 2.86 2.90 2.64 2.96 2.72 Germany greetings 2.70 2.89 2.41 2.62 2.75 Germany religion 2.79 2.88 2.42 2.74 2.84 India dates-of-significance 2.67 2.84 2.30 2.48 2.63 India etiquette 3.14 3.07 2.99 2.91 2.98 India family 2.64 2.61 2.62 2.70 2.53 India greetings 2.89 3.02 2.38 2.80 2.84 India religion 2.93 2.94 2.59 2.94 2.96 Iran dates-of-significance 2.75 2.80 2.57 2.75 2.73 Iran etiquette 2.72 2.70 2.60 2.58 2.62 Iran family 2.77 2.90 2.50 2.87 2.72 Iran greetings 2.84 2.96 2.31 2.66 2.73 Iran religion 2.75 2.62 2.75 2.83 2.62 Japan dates-of-significance 2.79 2.88 2.25 2.73 2.61 Japan etiquette 2.71 2.70 2.67 2.73 2.59 Japan family 2.76 2.82 2.54 2.81 2.73 Japan greetings 2.89 2.69 3.06 2.89 2.84 Japan religion 2.80 2.97 2.20 2.78 2.85 Poland dates-of-significance 2.76 2.84 2.50 2.86 2.70 Poland etiquette 3.27 3.27 3.19 3.08 3.06 Poland family 2.71 2.73 2.52 2.66 2.63 Poland greetings 2.62 2.67 2.61 2.69 2.61 Poland religion 2.67 2.78 2.46 2.56 2.62 South Africa dates-of-significance 3.18 3.16 3.20 3.12 3.21 South Africa etiquette 2.66 2.76 2.65 2.71 2.71 South Africa greetings 2.62 2.56 2.78 2.78 2.55 South Africa religion 2.70 2.70 2.55 2.77 2.67 

Table 8: Average VideoScore evaluation of Veo 3.1 Fast (Google DeepMind) for geographical Constrainst Removed Prompting. Behavior Context Identity Overall Country Base Ext Gain Base Ext Gain Base Ext Gain Base Ext Gain 

Brazil 33.3 46.8 +13.5 44.3 63.8 +19.5 21.4 39.5 +18.1 32.7 49.7 +17.0 

Canada 29.2 54.1 +24.9 27.3 54.2 +26.9 19.0 40.5 +21.5 24.9 49.3 +24.4 

Chile 27.5 44.5 +17.0 26.4 50.6 +24.2 20.9 35.3 +14.4 24.8 43.2 +18.4 

China 29.5 46.8 +17.3 42.1 71.2 +29.1 31.1 55.3 +24.2 34.0 57.4 +23.4 

Germany 32.4 53.8 +21.4 39.7 64.6 +24.9 33.0 47.8 +14.9 35.0 55.2 +20.3 

India 29.3 46.2 +16.9 41.4 66.2 +24.8 34.2 55.8 +21.6 34.6 55.6 +20.9 

Iran 25.8 38.5 +12.7 36.0 61.2 +25.2 27.7 46.2 +18.5 29.7 48.3 +18.6 

Japan 39.9 55.2 +15.3 41.0 74.5 +33.5 27.6 46.9 +19.3 36.2 58.6 +22.4 

Poland 31.8 48.6 +16.9 33.8 59.8 +25.9 27.8 43.8 +16.0 31.1 50.5 +19.4 

South Africa 21.8 34.7 +12.9 30.3 49.4 +19.2 23.2 34.9 +11.6 25.0 39.5 +14.5 Average 30.1 46.9 +16.9 36.2 61.6 +25.3 26.6 44.6 +18.0 30.8 50.7 +19.9 

> Table 9: Overall CultureScore (%) across countries and prompting strategies for LTX-2 (HaCohen et al., 2024). Ext implies extended prompt and Gain implies (%) gain from Base to Extended Prompt.

Behavior Context Identity Overall Country Base Ext Gain Base Ext Gain Base Ext Gain Base Ext Gain 

Brazil 33.1 48.2 +15.1 53.3 73.2 +19.9 29.6 47.1 +17.5 38.3 55.1 +16.8 

Canada 38.0 55.8 +17.8 44.3 60.8 +16.5 34.5 52.7 +18.2 38.8 56.2 +17.4 

Chile 29.6 44.5 +14.9 40.9 61.5 +20.6 26.3 40.9 +14.6 31.9 47.8 +15.9 

China 41.1 55.9 +14.8 56.7 76.3 +19.6 48.7 69.1 +20.4 48.4 66.1 +17.7 

Germany 34.9 49.7 +14.8 51.4 71.7 +20.3 35.9 57.9 +22.0 40.3 58.5 +18.2 

India 33.6 48.8 +15.2 46.7 68.8 +22.1 40.6 63.6 +23.0 39.8 59.2 +19.4 

Iran 28.4 41.4 +13.0 36.6 64.7 +28.1 28.9 46.7 +17.8 31.1 50.0 +18.9 

Japan 46.7 62.7 +16.0 59.0 75.5 +16.5 36.7 58.8 +22.1 47.2 65.1 +17.9 

Poland 30.8 39.4 +8.6 43.1 62.6 +19.5 28.0 45.9 +17.9 33.6 47.8 +14.2 

South Africa 27.0 42.8 +15.8 43.0 62.4 +19.4 21.4 39.3 +17.9 30.0 47.3 +17.3 Average 34.3 48.9 +14.6 47.5 67.8 +20.2 33.1 52.2 +19.1 37.9 55.3 +17.4 

> Table 10: Overall CultureScore (%) across countries and prompting strategies for Wan 2.2 (Wan et al., 2025). Ext implies extended prompt and Gain implies (%) gain from Base to Extended Prompt.

Country Category Identity CultureScore (%) Behavior CultureScore (%) Context CultureScore (%) 

Brazil dates-of-significance 24.5 35.6 38.6 Brazil etiquette 21.2 27.6 51.7 Brazil family 18.4 36.2 51.1 Brazil greetings 19.5 44.7 53.7 Brazil religion 20.4 23.6 32.0 Canada dates-of-significance 18.8 25.0 16.9 Canada etiquette 14.5 33.3 27.3 Canada family 16.7 28.9 40.0 Canada greetings 36.7 50.0 33.3 Canada religion 15.4 17.6 30.6 Chile dates-of-significance 29.6 28.7 19.3 Chile etiquette 19.7 28.0 35.0 Chile family 9.3 12.2 23.1 Chile greetings 30.3 50.0 43.8 Chile religion 8.3 20.6 18.2 China dates-of-significance 24.5 23.9 43.4 China etiquette 44.3 35.4 42.9 China family 30.8 30.9 39.6 China greetings 31.6 39.4 51.4 China religion 20.9 21.7 32.6 Germany dates-of-significance 24.0 23.8 30.6 Germany etiquette 40.0 45.0 53.4 Germany family 33.3 32.3 42.1 Germany greetings 51.4 44.7 53.1 Germany religion 27.3 21.9 25.8 India dates-of-significance 29.7 30.9 36.3 India etiquette 34.2 40.5 50.0 India family 34.0 13.3 38.5 India greetings 55.0 36.8 54.5 India religion 29.6 19.4 35.8 Iran dates-of-significance 26.2 24.5 32.6 Iran etiquette 26.0 28.6 38.0 Iran family 20.0 18.8 36.4 Iran greetings 36.8 35.1 41.7 Iran religion 36.1 22.9 34.4 Japan dates-of-significance 19.5 30.9 35.6 Japan etiquette 41.7 45.6 46.3 Japan family 24.4 36.4 36.4 Japan greetings 26.7 66.7 48.8 Japan religion 26.0 25.5 40.8 Poland dates-of-significance 28.4 31.5 38.1 Poland etiquette 37.5 36.0 43.8 Poland family 14.3 19.6 33.3 Poland greetings 34.5 58.8 25.0 Poland religion 24.4 22.9 18.6 South Africa dates-of-significance 17.3 19.6 29.0 South Africa etiquette 24.7 25.6 30.7 South Africa greetings 34.2 40.6 35.9 South Africa religion 25.5 8.0 27.7 

Overall 26.8 30.3 36.6 

Table 11: CultureScore for LTX-2 (HaCohen et al., 2024) base prompt by country and category. Country Category Identity CultureScore (%) Behavior CultureScore (%) Context CultureScore (%) 

Brazil dates-of-significance 42.6 46.7 54.5 Brazil etiquette 43.9 41.4 79.3 Brazil family 34.7 55.3 64.4 Brazil greetings 34.1 57.4 63.4 Brazil religion 37.0 36.4 62.0 Canada dates-of-significance 39.6 51.1 52.8 Canada etiquette 45.5 50.0 67.3 Canada family 31.5 51.1 42.0 Canada greetings 56.7 93.3 73.3 Canada religion 35.9 35.3 38.9 Chile dates-of-significance 29.6 52.1 42.0 Chile etiquette 49.3 42.0 61.7 Chile family 14.8 26.5 44.2 Chile greetings 54.5 68.4 65.6 Chile religion 36.1 26.5 48.5 China dates-of-significance 50.9 36.3 68.9 China etiquette 65.9 56.6 79.8 China family 55.8 45.5 62.5 China greetings 39.5 60.6 62.9 China religion 58.1 43.5 76.7 Germany dates-of-significance 41.3 53.5 68.4 Germany etiquette 55.4 65.0 72.4 Germany family 48.7 41.9 52.6 Germany greetings 51.4 60.5 59.4 Germany religion 48.5 37.5 58.1 India dates-of-significance 56.2 44.9 63.7 India etiquette 52.1 50.0 81.2 India family 51.1 44.4 59.0 India greetings 72.5 50.0 75.8 India religion 51.9 43.5 52.8 Iran dates-of-significance 36.4 40.2 57.9 Iran etiquette 57.1 37.7 73.2 Iran family 42.2 35.4 54.5 Iran greetings 47.4 54.1 47.2 Iran religion 55.6 22.9 68.8 Japan dates-of-significance 43.4 50.0 60.6 Japan etiquette 53.6 61.1 87.8 Japan family 48.9 52.3 68.2 Japan greetings 46.7 79.6 81.4 Japan religion 42.0 34.5 81.6 Poland dates-of-significance 50.5 51.9 59.0 Poland etiquette 39.3 40.0 56.2 Poland family 34.7 48.2 73.8 Poland greetings 48.3 67.6 64.3 Poland religion 40.0 37.5 48.8 South Africa dates-of-significance 22.7 30.8 42.0 South Africa etiquette 44.7 45.1 50.7 South Africa greetings 47.4 37.5 59.0 South Africa religion 35.3 24.0 55.3 

Overall 45.0 47.0 62.1 

Table 12: CultureScore for LTX-2 (HaCohen et al., 2024) (%) for extended prompt by country and category. Country Category Identity CultureScore (%) Behavior CultureScore (%) Context CultureScore (%) 

Brazil dates-of-significance 31.9 38.9 50.0 Brazil etiquette 25.8 25.9 63.8 Brazil family 24.5 38.3 53.3 Brazil greetings 39.0 40.4 53.7 Brazil religion 27.8 18.2 44.0 Canada dates-of-significance 36.5 40.9 34.8 Canada etiquette 21.8 27.8 47.3 Canada family 40.7 46.7 58.0 Canada greetings 60.0 53.3 60.0 Canada religion 17.9 20.6 27.8 Chile dates-of-significance 31.6 29.8 47.7 Chile etiquette 23.9 30.0 36.7 Chile family 11.1 14.3 28.8 Chile greetings 42.4 47.4 53.1 Chile religion 27.8 17.6 33.3 China dates-of-significance 47.3 42.5 56.6 China etiquette 52.3 48.5 64.3 China family 32.7 14.5 33.3 China greetings 55.3 54.5 71.4 China religion 55.8 47.8 58.1 Germany dates-of-significance 32.7 24.8 51.0 Germany etiquette 50.8 51.7 53.4 Germany family 17.9 35.5 50.0 Germany greetings 45.7 39.5 62.5 Germany religion 33.3 31.2 38.7 India dates-of-significance 28.9 29.4 43.4 India etiquette 45.2 40.5 48.4 India family 38.6 11.6 47.2 India greetings 70.0 44.7 60.6 India religion 42.6 35.5 41.5 Iran dates-of-significance 24.3 25.5 35.8 Iran etiquette 31.2 24.7 46.5 Iran family 24.4 27.1 20.5 Iran greetings 31.6 40.5 38.9 Iran religion 38.9 22.9 37.5 Japan dates-of-significance 25.7 37.3 46.2 Japan etiquette 53.6 57.8 68.3 Japan family 31.1 40.9 65.9 Japan greetings 42.2 59.3 60.5 Japan religion 32.0 38.2 65.3 Poland dates-of-significance 32.1 33.3 44.8 Poland etiquette 26.8 32.0 41.7 Poland family 22.4 21.4 40.5 Poland greetings 34.5 52.9 57.1 Poland religion 22.2 18.8 32.6 South Africa dates-of-significance 16.4 23.4 34.0 South Africa etiquette 23.5 24.4 52.0 South Africa greetings 28.9 25.0 46.2 South Africa religion 21.6 20.0 46.8 

Overall 33.4 33.9 47.8 

Table 13: CultureScore by country and category for Wan 2.2 (Wan et al., 2025) (Base Prompt). Country Category Identity CultureScore (%) Behavior CultureScore (%) Context CultureScore (%) 

Brazil dates-of-significance 43.6 52.2 72.7 Brazil etiquette 48.5 34.5 74.1 Brazil family 44.9 36.2 84.4 Brazil greetings 39.0 66.0 80.5 Brazil religion 51.9 43.6 62.0 Canada dates-of-significance 52.1 63.6 57.3 Canada etiquette 43.6 50.0 69.1 Canada family 55.6 57.8 60.0 Canada greetings 70.0 76.7 80.0 Canada religion 43.6 41.2 52.8 Chile dates-of-significance 46.9 45.7 60.2 Chile etiquette 43.7 54.0 71.7 Chile family 13.0 34.7 51.9 Chile greetings 63.6 55.3 81.2 Chile religion 41.7 32.4 60.6 China dates-of-significance 68.2 47.8 80.2 China etiquette 71.6 62.6 86.9 China family 50.0 40.0 64.6 China greetings 68.4 75.8 62.9 China religion 79.1 54.3 81.4 Germany dates-of-significance 44.2 45.5 75.5 Germany etiquette 73.8 68.3 74.1 Germany family 48.7 45.2 71.1 Germany greetings 62.9 55.3 75.0 Germany religion 54.5 37.5 61.3 India dates-of-significance 62.5 48.5 65.5 India etiquette 56.2 55.4 73.4 India family 70.2 28.9 74.4 India greetings 77.5 57.9 78.8 India religion 53.7 54.8 62.3 Iran dates-of-significance 36.4 44.1 68.4 Iran etiquette 46.8 37.7 83.1 Iran family 48.9 39.6 45.5 Iran greetings 52.6 51.4 55.6 Iran religion 52.8 42.9 59.4 Japan dates-of-significance 46.9 54.5 70.2 Japan etiquette 66.7 72.2 90.2 Japan family 48.9 54.5 72.7 Japan greetings 68.9 88.9 67.4 Japan religion 60.0 43.6 77.6 Poland dates-of-significance 48.6 48.1 67.6 Poland etiquette 35.7 32.0 60.4 Poland family 42.9 33.9 66.7 Poland greetings 41.4 44.1 64.3 Poland religion 46.7 35.4 58.1 South Africa dates-of-significance 33.6 46.7 60.0 South Africa etiquette 41.2 51.2 64.0 South Africa greetings 44.7 43.8 74.4 South Africa religion 39.2 32.0 59.6 

Overall 51.3 49.8 69.3 

Table 14: CultureScore (%) by country and category for Wan 2.2 (Wan et al., 2025) for Extended prompt. Country Category Identity CultureScore (%) Behavior CultureScore (%) Context CultureScore (%) 

Brazil dates-of-significance 33.3 66.7 50.0 Brazil etiquette 0.0 28.6 66.7 Brazil family 50.0 80.0 66.7 Brazil greetings 0.0 71.4 50.0 Brazil religion 0.0 66.7 60.0 Canada dates-of-significance 0.0 0.0 0.0 Canada etiquette 50.0 50.0 20.0 Canada family 66.7 80.0 50.0 Canada greetings 16.7 25.0 33.3 Canada religion 50.0 100.0 16.7 Chile dates-of-significance 50.0 33.3 0.0 Chile etiquette 83.3 33.3 80.0 Chile family 33.3 0.0 20.0 Chile greetings 40.0 66.7 60.0 Chile religion 28.6 66.7 66.7 China dates-of-significance 33.3 16.7 33.3 China etiquette 83.3 60.0 60.0 China family 0.0 0.0 50.0 China greetings 28.6 28.6 83.3 China religion 28.6 66.7 42.9 Germany dates-of-significance 28.6 28.6 50.0 Germany etiquette 50.0 33.3 100.0 Germany family 33.3 40.0 50.0 Germany greetings 66.7 42.9 16.7 Germany religion 20.0 0.0 33.3 India dates-of-significance 16.7 0.0 66.7 India etiquette 33.3 50.0 33.3 India family 14.3 20.0 20.0 India greetings 33.3 50.0 25.0 India religion 50.0 42.9 16.7 Iran dates-of-significance 14.3 16.7 33.3 Iran etiquette 66.7 14.3 66.7 Iran family 16.7 42.9 66.7 Iran greetings 50.0 80.0 50.0 Iran religion 57.1 33.3 66.7 Japan dates-of-significance 33.3 16.7 50.0 Japan etiquette 0.0 0.0 66.7 Japan family 0.0 57.1 28.6 Japan greetings 33.3 62.5 33.3 Japan religion 33.3 16.7 33.3 Poland dates-of-significance 16.7 50.0 16.7 Poland etiquette 0.0 0.0 50.0 Poland family 0.0 14.3 0.0 Poland greetings 0.0 71.4 66.7 Poland religion 16.7 12.5 0.0 South Africa dates-of-significance 16.7 0.0 14.3 South Africa etiquette 16.7 16.7 0.0 South Africa greetings 16.7 60.0 40.0 South Africa religion 71.4 16.7 33.3 

Overall 30.0 35.7 41.0 

Table 15: CultureScore across country for Veo Fast 3.1 (Google DeepMind) for Base Prompt across all countries and categories. Country Category Identity CultureScore (%) Behavior CultureScore (%) Context CultureScore (%) 

Brazil dates-of-significance 50.0 100.0 83.3 Brazil etiquette 14.3 14.3 50.0 Brazil family 50.0 83.3 66.7 Brazil greetings 50.0 71.4 83.3 Brazil religion 0.0 33.3 40.0 Canada dates-of-significance 0.0 57.1 57.1 Canada etiquette 66.7 85.7 50.0 Canada family 50.0 57.1 28.6 Canada greetings 66.7 71.4 83.3 Canada religion 50.0 50.0 33.3 Chile dates-of-significance 50.0 71.4 20.0 Chile etiquette 66.7 42.9 60.0 Chile family 33.3 16.7 16.7 Chile greetings 60.0 62.5 40.0 Chile religion 42.9 50.0 50.0 China dates-of-significance 33.3 16.7 83.3 China etiquette 83.3 42.9 100.0 China family 50.0 42.9 60.0 China greetings 28.6 71.4 83.3 China religion 57.1 57.1 100.0 Germany dates-of-significance 28.6 28.6 50.0 Germany etiquette 50.0 16.7 60.0 Germany family 50.0 50.0 33.3 Germany greetings 83.3 85.7 66.7 Germany religion 0.0 0.0 50.0 India dates-of-significance 33.3 42.9 50.0 India etiquette 66.7 25.0 83.3 India family 71.4 71.4 66.7 India greetings 66.7 50.0 75.0 India religion 50.0 57.1 16.7 Iran dates-of-significance 28.6 16.7 66.7 Iran etiquette 16.7 14.3 83.3 Iran family 33.3 57.1 50.0 Iran greetings 66.7 71.4 50.0 Iran religion 71.4 66.7 83.3 Japan dates-of-significance 16.7 16.7 66.7 Japan etiquette 33.3 33.3 100.0 Japan family 33.3 85.7 57.1 Japan greetings 33.3 87.5 83.3 Japan religion 33.3 42.9 50.0 Poland dates-of-significance 50.0 66.7 50.0 Poland etiquette 50.0 42.9 60.0 Poland family 28.6 71.4 57.1 Poland greetings 16.7 75.0 66.7 Poland religion 50.0 37.5 57.1 South Africa dates-of-significance 42.9 37.5 42.9 South Africa etiquette 33.3 50.0 33.3 South Africa greetings 16.7 71.4 33.3 South Africa religion 28.6 28.6 66.7 

Overall 42.3 51.5 59.2 

Table 16: CultureScore across country for Veo 3 Fast 3.1 (Google DeepMind) for Extended Prompt across all countries and categories.